This is a set for our country and our future. The events of recent weeks in France and others, deeply troubled the nation. They mixed legitimate demands and a chain of violence in. And I want to tell you from the outset, this violence will not benefit from any indulgence. We have all seen the game of opportunists who tried to take advantage of the sincere anger to divert them. We have all seen politicians whose only project was to shake the Republic, seeking disorder and lawlessness. None of them justify attacking a policeman. A gendarme degrades a public building business. Our freedom does not exist because everyone can express his or her opinions, because others may not share them without no one being afraid of his or her disagreements. Violence is unleashed, freedom is unleashed. It is therefore now calm and republican order that must prevail. We will make every effort to do so, because nothing will be built of lasting as long as there are fears for civil peace. I have given the government the most stringent instructions to that effect. But at the beginning of all this, I do not forget that there is an indignation and this indignation. Many of us, many Frenchmen, can share it and this one, I do not want to reduce it to the unacceptable behaviour I have just denounced. First of all, it was anger at a tax and the Prime Minister responded by cancelling and removing all the increases planned for the beginning of next year. But this anger is deeper. I feel it right in many ways. She can be our chance. It is that of the couple of employees who do not end the month and get up early every day and come back late to work. Away. It is that of a single, widowed or divorced mother who lives no longer than he has the means to have children cared for and to improve the end of the month. We don't have any hope anymore. I saw them, these brave women for the first time ten years. This distress on so much roundabout is that of modest pensioners who have contributed all their lives and often are both parents and children and do not get out of it. It is that of the most vulnerable, of people with disabilities in the place in society is not yet sufficiently recognized. Their distress may not be, but we ended up getting used to it. And in the end, everything was as if they were forgotten, erased. Forty years of malaise are resurfacing. Unease of workers who no longer find themselves there, malaise of the territories, village as a neighborhood, public services are being reduced and the living environment disappear. Democratic malaise in which the feeling of not being heard develops. Unease in the face of changes in our society, a shaken secularism and in the face of lifestyles that create barriers, distance. It comes from a very long way, but it is there. Now. No doubt we have not known for a year and a half and provide a sufficiently rapid and strong response. I take my share of that responsibility. I may have given you the feeling that it wasn't my concern, that I had other priorities. I also know that I have sometimes hurt some of you with my words. I want to be very clear tonight. If I fought to shake the political system in place, the habits, the hypocrisies, it is precisely because I believe more than anything in this country and I love it my legitimacy. I do not attract him from any title, from any party, from any coterie. I attract only from you, many other countries crosses badly live that is the. But I deeply believe that we can find a way out of it all together. I want France, because it is our vocation through history, to open paths never explored for ourselves and for the world. I want it for all of us French, because a people that are so divided, who no longer respect these laws and the friendship that must unite them, is a people that runs to its loss. I also want because it is by presenting this crisis, I have stood for your vote to reconcile, trained and have not forgotten this commitment and this necessity. First of all, it is the state of economic and social emergency that I want to declare today. We want to build a France of merit, of work, a France where our children will live better than us. This can only be achieved through a better university school, apprenticeship and training courses that teach the younger and the less young, what it takes to live free and to work on investment in the nation, in schools and training. And I confirm that we want a France where you can live with dignity from your work. On this point, we went too slowly. I want to intervene quickly and concretely on this subject. I ask the Government and Parliament to do what is necessary to make a better living from its work. From the beginning of next year, the wages of workers at the SMIC will increase by one hundred euros a month as early as two thousand and nine, without the cost of one more euro for. I want to get back to the correct idea that the accepted extra work constitutes an increase in income. Overtime will be paid without taxes and charges as early as two thousand and nineteen, and I want to see a real improvement immediately. That is why I would ask all employers who can do so to pay a year-end premium to their employees. And that premium will not have been tax. Pensioners are a valuable part of our nation. For those earning less than two thousand euros per month, we will be in two thousand and nine the CSG increase suffered this year. The effort they were asked to do was too great. He wasn't fair. As of tomorrow, the Prime Minister will present all of these decisions to parliamentarians. But we must not stop there. I need our big companies, our wealthiest fellow citizens and the nation to succeed. I will bring them together and take decisions to that end this week. I know that some people would like me to come back to the reform of the wealth tax. But for almost forty years it existed. Vision Better. During this period, the wealthiest were leaving and our country is weakening. This is in accordance with the commitments made before you. This tax has been removed for those who invest in our economy and thus help to create jobs. And it was maintained. On the contrary, for those who have a strong nor go back, would weaken us even as we are recreating jobs in all sectors. However, the Government and Parliament will have to go further. In order to put an end to unfair advantages and tax evasion, the manager of a French company must pay his taxes in France and must large companies making a profit pay the tax? It's just justice. As you can see, we will respond to the economic and social urgency with strong measures, faster tax cuts, better control over spending rather than declines. I expect the government to pursue the ambition of the transformations of this country that the people chose 18 months ago. We have before us a profound reform of the state of unemployment compensation and pensions. They are indispensable. We want rules that are fairer, simpler and reward those who work. But today, it is also with our collective project that we must renew for France and for Europe. That is why the announced national debate must be much broader. For this, we must first and foremost assume all our duty to produce so that we can redistribute the duty to learn, to be a free citizen, the duty to change in order to take account of the urgency of our climate and budgetary debt. To succeed, we must come together and address together all the issues that are essential to the nation. I want to ask questions that relate to representation. The possibility of a clearer voice of opinion in their diversity, a fairer electoral law, the inclusion of the white vote and even the admission of non-party citizens to participate in the debate. I want to ask the question of the balance of our taxation system so that it will ensure both justice and efficiency in the country. I want to ask the question of our daily lives to deal with climate change. Housing, moving, heating and the right solutions will also emerge from the ground. I want to ask the question of the organization of the State, how it is governed is administered from Paris, probably too centralized for decades and the question of public service in all of us. I also want us to agree with the nation itself on what its profound identity is, to address the issue of immigration. We need these fundamental changes which require profound reflection and sharing a post, an unprecedented debate. It will have to take place at the national level, in our institutions. Everyone there will be his, the government seemed social and associative partners. You do not know your I want to assure myself of coordination, receive advice, and thus take the living pup of our country. But such a debate is not only a matter of institutional representatives, it must also take place everywhere on the ground. And it is natural interlocutors, citizens who must receive requests and without relaying, it is the He carries the Republic on the ground. That's why I'll meet myself. The mayors of France, region by region, to build the foundation of our new contract for the nation, will not return to the normal course, as too often in the past, in similar crises, without anything really being understood and without nothing having changed. We are at a historic moment for our country, through dialogue, respect, commitment. We will succeed, we are on the job, and I will come back to you to report to you. My only concern is you. My only fight is for our only battle, it's for France. Long live the Republic, long live France! In recent weeks, our country has been facing the spread of a virus, the nineteenth Kuwait, which has affected several thousand of our compatriots. I heard this evening, first of all, a warm and emotional thought for the families and loved ones of the victim. This epidemic affects all continents and affects all European countries and the most serious crisis that France has experienced in a century. In the vast majority of cases, Kuwait 19 is safe. But the virus can have very serious consequences, especially for those of our compatriots who are elderly or affected by chronic diseases such as diabetes, obesity or cancer. For several weeks, we have prepared the staff of hospitals invalidated doctors in the UAS agents of our hospitals, city doctors, all the staff of the public health service in France are committed with dedication and efficiency. If we were able to delay the spread of the virus and limit severe cases, it was thanks to them because all responded present. All agreed to take time on their personal, family life for our health. That's why, on your behalf. First of all, I would like to express the gratitude of the nation this evening. To his heroes in white coats, those thousands of admirable women and men who have no compass other than the care of human concerns, our well-being, our life, simply. I also want to salute the cold-blooded you have shown in the face of the spread of the virus. You may have felt for yourself, for your loved ones, anxiety, even anguish, and this is quite legitimate, you have been able to cope, we know in neither anger nor panic. By taking the right steps, you have slowed the spread of the virus and thus enabled our hospitals and caregivers to prepare better. This is a great nation, women and men capable of placing collective interest above all else, a human community that holds values, solidarity and brotherhood. However, my dear compatriots, I can tell you this evening with great seriousness, lucidity, but also with the collective will that we adopt the right organization. We are only at the beginning of this epidemic and everywhere in Europe it is accelerating. Faced with this, the absolute priority for our nation will be our I do not compromise on and a principle. Our guides to define our actions. One from the beginning, to anticipate this crisis, has been doing to manage it for several weeks. And he must continue to the. It's trust in science, it's listening to those who know. The leading European experts spoke this morning in an important publication. Today I met with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, our scientific follow-up committee. We have in France the best virologists, the best epidemiologists, renowned specialists, clinicians as well, people who are in the field and who we have listened to. As we do since the first day all of us, it is said that despite our efforts for the, the virus continues to spread and is accelerating. We knew it, we feared it. What is likely to happen is that the disease will first affect the most vulnerable people. Many of them need appropriate care in the hospital, often respiratory assistance. That's why I'll be back in a moment. We are taking very strong steps to massively increase our hospital capacity. Because the challenge is to continue to treat the other males as well. It is also to prepare for a possible second wave which will affect a little later, in much smaller numbers, younger people, a priori less exposed to the disease, but who will also need to be treated. In this context, the urgency is to protect our most vulnerable compatriots. The emergency is to curb the epidemic in order to protect our hospitals, emergency and resuscitation services. We caregivers who are going to have to treat as I have just explained, more and more patients are our priorities. That is why we must continue to save time and follow those who are most vulnerable. Protecting the most vulnerable first is the top priority. That is why I call tonight on all people over the age of seventy, those suffering from chronic diseases or respiratory problems and those with disabilities to stay at home as much as possible. They will of course be able to get out of her house to do their shopping, to ventilate, but they must limit their contacts to the maximum. In this context, I questioned scientists about our municipal elections in the first round will be held in a few days. He considered that there was nothing to prevent the French, even the most vulnerable, from going to the polls. I also asked the Prime Minister. He did again this morning to consult widely with all the political families and they expressed the same. But it will be necessary to ensure strict adherence to the gestures, barriers against the virus and health recommendations. I trust and the civic spirit of each one of you. I also know that town halls and state services have organized things well. Reinforced instructions will be given tomorrow so that our elders do not wait long for threads to be built up, for distances to be maintained, and for these famous barriers to be respected. But it is important at this moment, following the advice of scientists, as we have just assured, to ensure the continuity of our democratic life and our institutions. This is the priority of today's priorities and therefore to protect the weakest, those affected by this epidemic first. The second is to curb the epidemic. Why have the Minister of Health, the Director General of Health explained this to you several times to avoid the accumulation of passion that will be in respiratory distress in our emergency and resuscitation departments? We need to keep saving time, and for this I will ask you to continue to make sacrifices and, rather, to make more, but for our collective interest. From Monday until further notice, nurseries, schools, colleges, high schools and universities will be closed for a simple reason. Our children and youngest people, according to scientists, are always the ones who seem to spread the virus the fastest. Even if for children they sometimes do not have symptoms and fortunately, today does not seem to suffer from acute forms of the disease. It is both to protect them and to reduce the spread of the virus throughout our territory. Child care will be set up, region by region. We will find the right ones so that, indeed, the personnel who are indispensable to the management of the health crisis can have their children kept and continue to go to work to protect you, to treat you and therefore this organization will be worked by the government in the coming days with the elected and all the officials on our land .. Whenever possible, I ask companies to allow their employees to work remotely. Ministers have already announced. We have a lot to develop telework. We must continue. This intensifies it to the maximum. Public transport will be maintained because stopping them, that would block everything, including the possibility of. But here too, it is your responsibility that I appeal to and invite all French people to limit their travel to what is strictly necessary. The government will also announce measures to limit to the maximum, brings together at the same time our health system, especially in the services of must prepare for more and more serious cases of Coville, nineteen and continue to treat the other patients. Move, have to be released in hospitals. For this, all hospital capacities, national as well as the maximum number of doctors and caregivers will be. We will also mobilize students, young retirees. Exceptional measures will be taken in this direction. Many of them have started. I want to thank them. I saw a few days ago at the Samu in Paris. Mobilization magnificent, moving, exemplary or students a few months away from their competition were there to answer calls and either doctors, barely retired, had returned to lend a hand. That is what we are going to collectively, generalized in a year. The right measures At the same time, non-essential hospital care will be postponed. That is, operations that are not urgent. Anything that can help us save time. Health has no price. The government will mobilize all the financial means necessary to provide assistance, to take care of the sick, to save lives, no matter how much it costs the decisions we are making, many of the changes we are making. We will keep them because we also learn from this crisis, because we caregivers are tremendous innovation and mobilization, and what we are doing freight. We will learn all the lessons and come out with an even stronger health care system. The general mobilization is also that of our researchers. Many French and European programmes and clinics are underway to produce rapid, efficient and effective diagnostics. We are going to improve things in and at the French and European level. Work is underway. Our teachers, with the support of private actors, are already working on several treatment paths in Paris, Marseille, Lyon, among others. Protocols have begun and I hope that in the next few weeks and months we will have first treatments that we will be able to generalize. Europe has all the advantages to offer the world the antidote. In Kuwait, 19 of the teams are also working to invent a vaccine. It will not be able to see the light of day for several months, but it holds great hopes. The mobilisation of our European French research is also at the rendezvous, and I will continue on. This ordeal also requires social mobilization in green, the poorest, the most fragile. The winter truce will be postponed for two months, and I ask the government to take exceptional measures in this context, for the most vulnerable. Finally, the evidence we are experiencing requires general economic mobilization. Already, restaurateurs, traders, craftsmen, professionals of tourism, culture, events, transport are suffering, I know. Contractors are worried about their order books. And all of you, for your job, for your purchasing power. I know it, it's legitimate. And with the decisions I have just announced tonight, this economic concern is obviously going to increase. We will not add to the difficulties. The fear of bankruptcy for entrepreneurs, the anguish of unemployment and difficult endings for employees. Therefore, every effort will be made to protect our employees and to protect our businesses at any cost. Here too, in the coming days, an exceptional and massive partial unemployment mechanism will be implemented. First announcements were made by ministers. We will go much further. The State will pay compensation to employees who are forced to stay at home. I want in the matter. What inspires us from what the Germans have been able to implement, for example with a system that is more generous, simpler than ours. I want us to be able to preserve jobs and skills, that is, to ensure that employees can stay in the company, even if they are forced to stay at home and we pay for them. I want us to be able to protect our independent as well, and therefore we will take all necessary steps to give that guarantee on the plans. All companies wishing to do so will be able to postpone the payment of contributions and taxes due in March without justification, without any formality. We then work on the necessary measures or cancellation or rescheduling. But I don't know collectively. I always take too long to do this. I want simple measures for our economic forces. Deadlines due in the coming days and weeks will be suspended for all those who need them. We will defend our businesses of all sizes, we will defend all workers. At the same time, I asked the government to prepare a national and European recovery plan that is consistent with our priorities and commitments for the European Union. We also need to provide a European response. The central bank has already announced its first decisions today. Will they be enough? I don't believe it. It will be up to him to take new ones. But I'm going to be here, too, very clear with you tonight. We Europeans will not allow a financial and economic crisis to react and react quickly. All European governments must take decisions to support the activity and then to relaunch it at any cost. France will do and it is this line that I will take to European level in you. This is already what I did at the exceptional Council held yesterday. I do not know what the financial markets will do in the next few days. I'd be just as clear. Europe will react in an organised, massive way to protect its. I also hope that we can organize ourselves internationally, and I appeal to the powers of the G-7 and G-20. As of tomorrow, I would speak with President Truman to propose to him an exceptional initiative between the members of the G-Seven, since it is he who, in the presidency, is not the division that will allow us to respond to what is today a global crisis, but our ability to see just vice together and act together. My dear compatriots, all these measures are necessary for our security, and I ask you to stand together around it. A crisis of such magnitude is not being overcome without being united. A crisis of this magnitude cannot be overcome without great individual and collective discipline, without unity. Today I hear voices in this country that go in every direction. Some tell us You do not go far enough and would all shut down and worry about everything sometimes disproportionately. And others consider that this risk is not for them. I tried to give you tonight what must be the line of our entire nation. Today we must avoid two pitfalls. My dear compatriots, on the one hand, the nationalist withdrawal, this virus, it has no passport. We need to unite our coordinated forces. A cooperating response. France is at work. European coordination is essential, and I will ensure that. We may have measures to take, but they must be taken to reduce trade between the areas that are affected, those that are not affected. These are not necessarily the borders. A fake help there at no ease, no panic. We will undoubtedly have measures to control border closures to take, but they will have to be taken when they are relevant and they will have to be taken as Europeans at European level, because that is where we have our freedoms and protections. The other pitfall would be individualistic withdrawal. Never surpasses such trials in. On the contrary, it is in solidarity, by telling us, rather than thinking at stake, that we will meet this immense challenge. That's why I want to tell you tonight that I'm counting on you for the days, weeks, months to come. I am counting on you because the government cannot on its own and because we are a nation. Everyone has a role to play. I am counting on you to comply with the instructions that are and will be given by the authorities, and in particular these famous gestures against the virus. They are still too little applied today. This means washing your hands long enough with soap or already with the rights. It means greeting without kissing or shaking hands so as not to be passed on. The virus means being at a distance of a meter. These gestures, they may seem harmless to you. They save lives, therefore, my dear compatriots, I solemnly call you to adopt them. Each of us holds a share of the protection of, starting with our loved ones. I am counting on you to take care of the most vulnerable of our compatriots. Not visiting our elders is, and I am well aware, one. It is necessary, however, temporarily. Write, call, take protected news by limiting visits. I'm counting on you. Yes, to also help the neighbour who, when he is a caregiver, needs a childcare solution for his children to go to work, take care of others. I am counting on companies to help all employees who can work at home do so. I am counting on all of us to invent new solidarity in this period. I therefore call on the Government to work with the social partners, with the associations, in this direction. This crisis must be an opportunity for a national mobilization of solidarity between us. There are already actions that exist on the ground. We can do even harder all together. Of course, I also count, especially our caregivers. I know everything they've done before, I know what they have to do. The government and I will be here. We will take all our responsibilities for you. I think of all our caregivers in the hospital who will have the most serious cases to treat, but also a lot of urgency. I am thinking of the doctors, the nurses, the nurses, all the caregivers who are also out of the hospital, who have mobilized so badly, whom we are going to be asking more and more. In the coming weeks, I know I can count. The Minister of Health will also have the opportunity to specify in the next few hours the rules so that we dedicate you to protect yourself against the virus. That is the respect we have for you and that is obviously what the nation owes you. The rules will be clear to everyone, they will be there also proportionate and explain. I am counting on all of you to make a nation of, to awaken the best in us. To reveal that generous soul that, in the past, has allowed France to face the hardest. My dear compatriots, tomorrow we will have to learn the lessons from the moment we are going through. Questioned the development model in which our world has been engaged for decades that reveals its shortcomings in the open. Questioned the weaknesses of our democracies. What this pandemic already reveals is that free health, without conditions of income, career or profession, our welfare state are not blows or charges, but goods, indispensable assets when destiny strikes. What this pandemic reveals is that it is good and services that need to be placed outside the laws of the market. To delegate our food, our protection, our ability to care for our living environment, basically, to others, is one. We must regain control of it, build even more than we already do, a France and a sovereign Europe, a France and a Europe that hold their destiny firmly in hand. The next few weeks and months will require breaking decisions. In that sense, I would assume them. But the time today is for the protection of our fellow citizens and the cohesion of the nation. The time is for this sacred union, which consists in following the same path together, not giving in to panic. No fear has no ease, but has regained that strength of soul that is ours and that has allowed another people to overcome so much crisis throughout history. France is our best asset in the troubled period we are going through. We'll all hold together. Long live the Republic, long live France! French, French, dear compatriots, we are experiencing difficult days. We all feel fear, anguish for our parents, for ourselves, in the face of this fearsome, invisible, unpredictable virus. Fatigue and weariness for some, grief and grief for others. This period is even more difficult to live when you live with others, in a cramped apartment, when you do not have the means of communication at home to learn, entertain and exchange even more. Difficult to live when tensions are there, as the risks of violence in the family, this camp, the daily and we will all go in this period, the loneliness and sadness of our years and for thanks to our efforts. Every day, we have made progress. Officials and health personnel, doctors, nurses, caregivers, paramedics, rescuers, our military, our firefighters, our pharmacists have given in this front line all their energy to save lives and treat. They held it. The French hospitals have managed to treat all those who come to the hospital. These days, these weeks have been and will remain the honour of us, both in the city and in the hospital. In the second line, our farmers, our teachers, our truck drivers, delivery man, electrician, handler, cashiers and cashiers, our garbage collectors, security and cleaning staff of civil servants, our journalists, our social workers, our mothers and our local elected officials, and I forget, helped by so many French people who have committed themselves. All of them have allowed life to continue in what I have called this third line, each of you, through your civic spirit, respecting the rules of containment, thanks also to the vigilance of our police officers, our gendarmes. You've made the epidemic begin to mark the leap. The results are here. Several regions have been spared. In the last few days, the inflows in resuscitation have been decreasing, hope has been reborn and I want to thank you very much for this dedication and thank you very much. So were we prepared for this crisis? Obviously not enough, but we faced in France as everywhere else. So we had to deal with the urgency of making difficult decisions based on partial, often changing information, constantly adapting, because this virus was unknown and it still carries a lot of the moment today, let us be honest, revealed flaws and shortcomings like all the countries of the world. We ran out of blues, gloves, hydro alcohol gel. We have not been able to distribute as many masks as we would have liked for our caregivers, for staff caring for our elders, for nurses, for home helpers, when these problems were identified. We mobilized government, local authorities, industry, association to produce and acquire the necessary equipment. But I am fully aware that when you are on the front, it is hard to hear that a global shortage is preventing books. Orders are now placed. Above all, our French companies and our workers have responded and a production, as in times of war, has been set up. We reopened lines to produce. We requisitioned. Within three weeks, we will have imagined the production of masks for our caregivers in France by five times, and we will have produced ten thousand more respirator on our floor. It's so valuable respirator in resuscitation. Thanks to these efforts, we will be able to cope and we will continue to distribute more equipment. But like you, I have still seen too slow, unnecessary procedures, weaknesses in our logistics too. We will draw all the consequences in due course, when it comes to organizing ourselves. In recent weeks, let us also be fair to our country have been marked by real successes. The doubling of the number of resuscitation beds, which had never been achieved, the unprecedented cooperation between the hospital, private clinics and city medicine, the transfer of patients to the least affected regions, but also to Luxembourg, Switzerland, Germany and Austria, whom I thank. The implementation of distance education, the organization of a chain of solidarity in our municipalities, the success of all those who fed us during these weeks without commitment, the repatriation of tens of thousands of French and European nationals from countries around the world and the support of French abroad. Very often, which seemed impossible for years, we knew how to do it in a matter of days. We have innovated, dare to the ground as close as possible. A lot of solutions have been found. We must remember, because it is so strong for my fellow countrymen, if I wanted to address you this evening, after having consulted extensively over the last few days, it is to tell you in complete transparency what awaits us for the coming weeks and months. Hope is reborn. I was telling you. Yes, but nothing is acquired. In the Grand Est as in Ile-de-France, hospital services are saturated everywhere, in France as in the other seas, the system is under tension and the epidemic is not yet under control. We must therefore continue our efforts and continue to apply the rules. The more they are respected, the more lives we will save. That is why the strictest containment is still to continue until Monday, 11 May. This is the only way to act effectively during this period. This is the condition to further slow the spread of the virus, succeed in finding places available for resuscitation and allow our caregivers to rebuild their strength. Monday, May 11th will only be possible if we continue to be responsible civic, to abide by the rules and if the spread of the virus has indeed continued to slow down, I fully measure it by telling you that the effort I am asking of you over the next four weeks, the rules set by the government will have to continue to be respected. They are demonstrating their effectiveness and should not be reduced or strengthened, but fully implemented. I ask all of our elected representatives so I know the importance in this period. I call on all our elected representatives, as the Republic envisages in this regard, to help ensure that these rules are the same everywhere on our soil. Curfews were decided where it was useful, but we should not add prohibitions to the for our daily lives. We have to continue when we go out, apply the gestures, keep us away and wash our hands. I also want to remind you that all those who have a chronic illness or suffer from other diseases should be able to continue to consult their doctor. Because it's not just the virus that kills. Extreme loneliness, abandoning other care can also be dangerous. I also hope that hospitals and nursing homes will be able to organize for the closest, with the right protections, visits to the sick at the end of their life so that you can tell them during this phase of the country. Continuing to live And fortunately, some activities are prohibited because they are incompatible with health rules for all other economic sectors. When the safety of workers and entrepreneurs, well guaranteed, they must be able to produce and have been largely for a month now for all those who need help during this period, the measures of partial unemployment for employees and financing for enterprises will be extended and strengthened. They are new and already protect more than eight million of our employees and many of our companies. For craftsmen, traders, liberal professions and entrepreneurs, the solidarity fund provides a first answer. But I know your anguish, I heard it, I read it. The charges that continue to fall, the milking, the rents, the borrowing. That is why I have asked the government to increase the aid considerably, to simplify it so that you can overcome this period. I hope that the banks will be able to postpone all maturities much more massively than they have. And insurance must be at the rendezvous of this economic mobilization. I'll be attentive. So there is work in the next few days to continue to consolidate you economically in this period. Quickly, a specific plan will be implemented for sectors that, such as tourism, hotel, catering, culture and events, will be permanently affected. Cancellations of charges and specific aids will be introduced for the most fragile and needy. These weeks are also very difficult. I want to thank the mayors, the local elected representatives, the associations that have mobilized strongly alongside the government. I asked THIS to go further there and to provide without delay exceptional assistance to the most modest families with children in order to enable them to meet their basic needs. The most precarious students, sometimes living far from their families, especially when they come from overseas, will also help the Council of Ministers decide on new financial means and the government will provide all the necessary answers whenever necessary. On May 11, my dear compatriots, it will therefore be the beginning of a new stage. It will be progressive. The rules can be adapted according to our results, because the primary objective remains the health of all French people. From May 11, we will gradually open nurseries, schools, colleges and lycées. This is a priority for me because the current situation deepens inequalities too many children, especially in neighborhoods, in our countryside, are deprived of schools without access to digital technology and cannot be helped in the same way by parents. In this period, inequalities in housing and inequalities between families are even more pronounced. That is why our children must be able to return to the classroom path, the government in consultation. However, to set up special rules, differently organized time and space, to protect our teachers and our children well with the necessary equipment for students of higher education, classes will not resume physically until the summer. The government will specify for each individual the right organization that will be needed, particularly for examinations and competitions on May 11. It will also allow as many people as possible to return, work and restart our industry, our businesses and our services. The government is preparing, without abandoning reopening with the social partners, for rules to be established to protect employees at work. That's the priority. On the other hand, public venues, restaurants, cafes and hotels, cinemas, theatres, theatres and museums will remain closed at this stage. Major festivals and events, with a large audience, will not be held until at least mid-July. The situation will be collectively assessed from miming every week to adapt things and give you visibility for their protection. We will ask the most vulnerable people, elderly people with severe disabilities to people with chronic diseases to stay even after May 11, at least initially confined. I know this is a strong constraint. I measure what I ask of you and we will work by May 11 to make this temple bearable for you. But you'll have to try to stick to it to protect you. For your, we will have from May 11th a new organization to succeed this summer. The widest possible use of testing and detection is a preferred weapon to get out of the film at the right time. In the meantime and in the coming weeks, we will continue to increase the number of tests every day. This is what, for the last two weeks, indeed, I have asked that these tests should first be carried out on our seniors, as caregivers and the most vulnerable, and that we should continue to mobilise everywhere, all the means to carry out tests, that is, all the public laboratories and all the private laboratories. On May 11th, we will be able to test anyone with symptoms. Let's not test every French woman, it wouldn't make any sense. But anyone who has a symptom, we must be able to be tested. This will allow people with the virus to be quarantined, managed and monitored by a doctor. To accompany this phase, several innovations are the subject of work with some of our European partners, such as a dedicated digital application that, on the basis of volunteering and anonymity, will allow us to know whether or not launch, found in contact with a person. Surely you've heard of it? The government will have worked. We must not neglect any lead, no innovation. But I wish that before May 11th. Our assemblies can debate this and the competent authorities can enlighten us. For this epidemic cannot weaken our democracy or bite on a few liberates until further notice, not with non-European countries will remain. We then deplore all the means necessary to protect the population in addition to the gestures, which you know well and which you will have to continue to apply. The state from May 11, in conjunction with the mayors, will have to allow every Frenchman to obtain a great mask for the most exposed professions. And for certain situations, such as public transport, its use could become systematic. This will be possible thanks to our imports and the tremendous mobilization of entrepreneurs and employees throughout the territory. In order to produce such masks massively, within two weeks the government will present, on the basis of these principles, the post-11 May plan and the organisational details of our daily lives. Regular meeting points will be held so that we can adapt the measures taken and together decide regularly to adjust things. So, when can we hope to see the definitive end of this trial? When can we reconnect with life before? I know your questions, I share them. They're legitimate. I wish I could tell you everything and answer you on each of these questions, frankly, humility. We do not have a definitive answer to that today. Dapper based on the first data that will be coming soon because we call tests. These a very small minority of French have contracted Kuwait nineteenth. Which means that we are far from what specialists call collective immunity, that is, the moment when the virus stops its circulation by itself because enough of us have seen it. That is why the first way out of the epidemic and that of vaccines, all that the world has talent, of researchers who work France is recognized in this area and has excellent resources, because it is probably the safest solution, even if it will take at least several months to put it in place. Our country will invest even more heavily in research, and in the coming days I will carry an initiative with many of our partners on your behalf to speed up work. The second way is the. We've been working on it since the first day. I know there has been a lot of debate in this country. All options are being explored and our country is the country that has engaged the most clinical trials in Europe. I myself wanted to understand each of the options available, to make sure that everything was tried as quickly as possible and rigorously as possible. It is not about giving treatment if you are unsure, but about carrying out all the clinical trials so that all leads are pursued. And believe it, our doctors, our researchers are working hard. No leads born neglect. No leads will be overlooked. I commit to it. That is, tonight, I share with you what we know and what we do not know. We will eventually win, but we will have several months to live with the virus with humility. Today, we need to decide and act in the light of uncertainties. With lucidity? Yes, because look, the virus seemed to have been defeated and it returns to many countries that again, decides to close their. We must therefore proceed calmly and courageously. But what I know, what I know at this moment, my dear compatriots, is that our nation stands up, in solidarity, for a common purpose. They said we were an unruly people. And now we respect some of the strictest rules, disciplines that have ever been imposed on our people. In peacetime, it was said that we were an exhausted, routine people, far from the momentum of the foundations. And now so many of you are competing for dedication, commitment to the unexpected. From this threat. Here we are all solidarity, fraternal, fellow citizen of a country that is facing, fellow citizen of a country that is debating, debating, continuing to live its democratic life but which remains united. Tonight I want to share with you at the heart of the test this affair, this certain idea that has made France is there, alive and creative. It must fill us with hope, it's us. In the coming weeks, the government, Parliament, our administration, our mothers and local elected officials will have to prepare for the follow-up. As far as I am concerned, I shall try to bring our voice to Europe in order to have more unity and solidarity. The first decisions were in the right direction and we have a lot or that is why, whether it be the European Central Bank, the European Commission or the European Union. But we are at a moment of truth that imposes more ambition, more audacity, a moment of rebuilding. We also need to know how to help our African neighbours fight the virus more effectively, and to help them economically by cancelling their debts massively. Yes, we'll never win alone. Because today, In Bergamo, plank from Brussels, London, Beijing, New York, Algiers or we mourn the deaths of the same virus. So, if this fragment will undoubtedly be a part of our world, it is our responsibility to build new solidarity and cooperation today. It will also be up to us, in the coming weeks, to prepare the aftermath. We will have to rebuild our stronger economy in order to produce and give full hope to our employees, our entrepreneurs, to maintain our financial independence. We will have to rebuild French agricultural, health, industrial and technological independence and more strategic autonomy for our Europe. This will require a massive plan for our health, our research, our seniors, among others. We will also have to remember that this country today holds its entirety on women and men whom our economies recognize and pay so badly. Social distinctions can only be based on common utility. These words, the French wrote them more than two hundred years ago, now having to take over the torch and give full force to this principle. We will have to build a strategy where we will find the long time, the opportunity to plan for low-carbon, prevention and resilience, which alone can be able to cope with future crises. These few evidences are necessary for us today, but will not suffice. And I find it. So I'll come back to you to talk about this aftermath. The moment we live is an intimate shaking, the collectives know how to live it as it reminds us that we are vulnerable. The plane, probably forgotten and not looking right away, did they find the confirmation? Without which we had always believed? No. Let us know in this moment go out of the beaten path, out of ideologies and reinvent ourselves, me first. There is a chance in this crisis. Resolve us and prove our humanity. Building another project in the Concorde, a French project, a reason to live together, deep. In the coming weeks, with all the components of our nation, I will try to draw the path that makes this possible. My dear compatriots, we will have better days and we will find happy days again. We are here and the virtues that today allow us to hold will be those that will help us build the future, our solidarity, our trust and our will. So take care of you take care of each other and we will hold. Long live the Republic, long live France! who come from our Organization in the face of the epidemic. To draw the first lessons from this crisis is drawn in a few lines. Our new path. From tomorrow, we will be able to turn the page on the first act, in a way, of the crisis that we have just gone through tomorrow, the whole territory, except Mayotte and Guyana, where the virus is still actively circulating. The whole territory, therefore, will move into what is now known as the green zone, which will enable, among other things, a stronger resumption of work and the reopening of cafes and restaurants in Ile-de-France. From tomorrow it will be possible again to move between European countries. And from 1 July, we will be able to go to states outside Europe, where the epidemic will be under control tomorrow. In France as in addition to the sea, nurseries, schools and colleges will prepare to welcome from the twenty-two June, all pupils in a compulsory manner and according to the rules of normal attendance. Rallies should continue to be avoided as much as possible, as we know they are the main opportunities for the spread of the virus. They will therefore remain very framed. The second round of municipal elections may take place in the municipalities concerned on 28 June. Finally, for our seniors in retirement homes or institutions, visits will now have to be authorized. We will therefore be able to regain the pleasure of being together, to fully resume work, but also to entertain ourselves, to cultivate ourselves. We are going to find part of our art of living, our taste for freedom. In short, we will fully return to France. This does not mean that the virus is gone and that we can completely lower the guard. We will have to live with him for a long time, to respect the rules of physical distance. The summer of two thousand and twenty will not be a summer like any other, and we will have to watch the evolution of the epidemic in order to prepare ourselves if it comes back more forcefully. The fight against the epidemic is therefore not over. But I am happy with you for this first victory against the virus and I want tonight right now, thinking with our dead, their families, in mourning has been made even more cruel because of the constraints of this period. So today, the moment started with the beginning of containment was nothing obvious. If we can reopen the country, it is because at every stage of the epidemic, everyone has taken their part. The Prime Minister and the government have worked hard. Parliament met, the state held. The elected representatives of the field committed themselves on March 16. We have made the humanistic choice to place health above the economy by asking you to stay at home. You then showed an admirable sense of responsibility and thanks to the exceptional commitment of our caregivers and all the teams, all the patients who needed it were able to be cared for in the hospital, in the city medicine, thanks to all those among you who continued to work despite the anguish, often to ensure essential services to the nation, we were able to feed ourselves and continue to live. When, on April 13th, I announced to you a release from containment from the 11th, I know that many then advise him against and no consensus. Opinions were very different, including among scientists, but we collectively, methodically prepared what has been called containment. Again, everyone worked hard. We overcame the fears and anxieties and you came out again had gradually resumed work. We did our factories, shops, our businesses were able to restart. The new stage that begins tomorrow will speed up the recovery. We have to. And here too, I am counting on you because we need to fully rebuild our economy by continuing to protect the most vulnerable. We do not have to blush my dear compatriots for our record. Tens of thousands of lives have been saved by our choices. Through our actions, we have doubled our resuscitation capacity in a few days, organized transfers of hundreds of patients between regions and with neighbouring countries, supplying trade, reorienting our industrial production, inventing new solidarity. The period showed that we had the competence of the resource, that in the face of a virus that struck us earlier and stronger than many others, we were able to be inventive, reactive, solid. We can be proud of what has been done and of our country. Of course, this test also revealed flaws and weaknesses. Our dependence on other continents to obtain certain products. Organisational burdens to social and territorial inequalities. I want us to learn all the lessons from what we have and with you understand what We have done better, at least well, than our neighbors, our forces, we confront them. Our weaknesses, we will fix them quickly and hard. The moment that we are going through, after many crises over the past 15 years, requires us to open a new stage in order to regain full control of our lives, our destiny in France and Europe. This will be the priority of the next two years that I want to be useful for the nation. It is also the four of the decade that we have before us. Rediscover our independence to live happily and live better with the epidemic. The world economy is almost stopped. Our first priority is therefore to rebuild a strong, ecological, sovereign and supportive economy. Since the first day of the crisis, our mobilization has been complete. Whatever it costs, that was the commitment I made before you as early as March. Partial unemployment, business loans, support for self-employed traders, support for the most precarious — everything has been done by the government. To safeguard our jobs and to help everyone, we have decided on massive plans for the hardest hit sectors. The aerospace automotive industry, tourism, culture, catering, hospitality and we will continue. In total, we have mobilised nearly five hundred billion euros for our economy, for workers, for entrepreneurs, but also for the most precarious. This is new and I want you to measure it tonight as fully. In how many countries has all this been done? This is an opportunity and it shows the strength of our state, our social model and our economy. These expenses are justified and justified because of the exceptional circumstances we have just transferred, but in Vienna, we add another debt already existing. We will not finance its expenditures by raising taxes. Our country is already one of those with the heaviest taxation, although for three years we started at the ECB, the only answer is to build a sustainable economic model, stronger, work and produce more so as not to depend on others. And we must do this at a time when our country is going to experience bankruptcies and multiple social plans due to the global economic downturn. That is why I will assume with you, with all the forces of our country, with the fabric of our enterprises, with our communal, independent employees, our intermediary bodies. I will embark on this economic reconstruction. We must first do everything we can to avoid dismissals as much as possible. That is why, together with the unions and employers, we have launched negotiations so that in all companies we can preserve as many jobs as possible despite the decline in activity. We need to create new jobs by investing in our technological, digital, industrial and agricultural independence through research, consolidation of sectors, attractiveness and relocations where warranted, a real productive pact. We also need to create the jobs of tomorrow through ecological reconstruction, which reconciles production and climate, with a plan to modernise the country around the thermal renovation of our buildings, cleaner transport and support for green industries. It will also require accelerating our maritime strategy, which is the world's second largest ocean power. In a few days, the citizens' convention will return its work that will contribute to this reconstruction must also be social and solidarity. A revival through health, as we began to do with the negotiation of the Ségur, which not only revalorizes rave, nursing staff but will transform the hospital as city medicine through new investments and a more effective and preventive organization. A renewed solidarity that will better protect our elders, better protect the poorest among them. A social and solidarity recovery, finally, through a massive investment in education, training and employment for our youth. We owe her, we have asked her so much during this period, she will have a summer and a return to school, it is difficult and it is she who bears the ecological and budgetary debt of our country. This reconstruction plan will take place with Europe, which, after its timid beginnings, has risen to the height of the moment. The Franco-German agreement on joint debt and an investment plan to restore the continent's economy is a historic turning point. By borrowing together for the first time with the Chancellor of Germany, we propose to the other European states to tell us, rather than an addition of play, that is the result of hard work initiated by France and which we have been doing for three years. This may be an unprecedented step in our European adventure and the consolidation of an independent Europe which gives itself the means to assert its identity, its culture and its uniqueness in the face of China, the United States and in the world disorder than us, a Europe that is stronger, more united and more sovereign. This is the fight that I will be waging on your behalf from the July European Council and in the next two years. This economic, ecological and solidarity reconstruction will be the key to our independence. It will be prepared throughout the summer with the living forces of our nation to be implemented as soon as possible. The independence of France, in order to live better, also requires our unity around the Republic. Tel. And the second axis of this new stage. I don't see us dividing for all and sometimes losing the very meaning of our history. Unite around republican patriotism is a necessity. We are a nation where everyone, regardless of their origins, their religion, must find their place is true everywhere and for everyone, No. Our struggle must therefore continue, intensify in order to obtain the diplomas and jobs that correspond to the merits and talent of each individual, and fight against the fact that name, address and skin colour all too often reduce the chances that everyone sees in our country. We will be untreatable in the face of racism, anti-Semitism and discrimination, and new strong decisions for equal opportunities will be taken. But this noble and misguided struggle when it turns into communitarianism, into hate rewriting, a fake of the past, this fight is unacceptable when recovered by the separatists. I say this very clearly to you tonight, my dear compatriots, the Republic will not erase any trace or name of its. She won't forget any of these works. They will not result from We must rather lucidly look together at all our history, all our memories, our relationship to Africa in particular, in order to build a present and a possible future from one bank to the other of the Mediterranean, with a desire for truth and in no way to revisit or deny who we are. Nor will we build our future in disorder. No republican order. There is neither security nor freedom. This order, it is the police and gendarmes on our soil that he has, they are exposed to daily risks on our behalf. That is why it deserves the support of the public authority and the recognition of the. Finally, it will not come back with you to build new balances of power and responsibility. This is the third axis I see at this news is. I have a deep conviction. The organization of the State and of our action must change profoundly. Not everything can be decided so often in Paris. In the face of the epidemic, citizens, businesses, trade unions, associations, local authorities and State agents in the territories were able to show ingenuity, efficiency and solidarity. Let's trust them more. Let's unleash creativity and energy from the field. That is why I want to open a new page for our country giving new liberties and responsibilities to those who act as close as possible. Freedom, responsibility for our hospitals, our universities, our entrepreneurs, our mothers and many other key players. My dear compatriots, this project of independence and reconstruction is only possible because for three years we have worked tirelessly for education, the economy and the fight against inequalities in our country. Because if we have fought for our European project and our place in the international order, I do not believe that overcoming the challenges before us is to come back in no, but to draw a new path. That is how each of us must reinvent ourselves, as I said, that we must collectively do differently, and you understood it, in what I began to sketch tonight. I apply it first and foremost to myself. It is in this spirit of concord that I have asked the Presidents of the two parliamentary chambers and of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council to propose a number of priorities that could bring together as many people as possible. It is also in this spirit that I have engaged in broad consultations, which I will continue in the coming days. I will address you in July to clarify this new path, to start the first actions, and that will not stop. My dear compatriots, we have historical challenges before us in order to meet them. Let us never forget our strengths, our history, our youth, our sense of work and commitment, our will for justice, our ability to create to say and change the world, our benevolence. Let us act together with all his strength, saw himself on the edge. Let us have together this will to conquer this energy of the coming day. Long live the Republic, long live France! French, French, My dear compatriots. On Thursday evening, I addressed you to talk about the health crisis in our country. Until then, the outbreak of Coville nineteen may have been for some of you. A distant idea. It has become an immediate, pressing reality. The government has taken firm steps, as I told you, to curb the spread of the virus. Nurseries, schools, colleges, high schools, universities have been closed since that day. On Saturday night, restaurants, bars, all the shops not essential to the life of the Nation also closed their doors. Rallies of more than one hundred people were. France had never had to take such decisions, obviously exceptional, they were taken with order, preparation on the basis of scientific recommendations, with a single objective. Protect us from the spread of the virus. In the day of Thursday, a scientific and political consensus is to maintain the first round of municipal elections. I took the decision with the Prime Minister to maintain the vote yesterday Sunday, so the voting operations were able to take place. Tonight I would like to thank the state services, the mayors, all the departments, the town halls and all those who held the polling stations and who therefore allowed the organization of this election. I would also like to warmly greet the French who, despite the context, went to the polls in strict compliance with the health regulations and the gestures against the virus. I also want to address my republican congratulations to the elected candidates In the first round, About thirty thousand municipalities out of thirty five thousand have, after this first round, a city council. But at the same time, while resuscitation staff alert to the seriousness of the situation, we have also seen people gather in parks, crowded markets, restaurants, bars that have not complied with the closure instructions. As if, basically, life did not have to all those who adopt in these behaviors braved the instructions. I mean tonight very clearly, not only do you not protect yourself, you Recent developments have shown that no one is invulnerable, including the youngest. But you weren't protecting others. Even if you had no symptoms. You can transmit the virus even if you had no symptoms, risk contaminating your friends, your parents, your grandparents, endangering the health of your loved ones in the Grand Est, in the waters of France in the Ile-de-France, we caregivers, fights to save lives with dedication, with force. At a time when the health situation is deteriorating sharply, when the pressure on our hospitals and caregivers is increasing, all our commitment, all our energy, all our strength must be focused on one goal. Slowing down the progress of the I say to you forcefully, respecting gestures, barriers, health guidelines, is the only way for vulnerable people to have fewer people infected and thus reduce the pressure on resuscitation services so that they can receive better, better cared for without serious signs. Contacts have our attending physician, we call the UAS and we go to the hospital only in case of high fever, difficulty breathing, otherwise they will not be able to cope with the wave of serious cases already looming in some regions. With a spirit of solidarity and a sense of responsibility, each of us owes at all costs. Limiting the number of people with whom he is in contact every day, scientists say, is the top priority. That is why, after consulting, listening to the experts, the field and conscientious, I decided to further strengthen measures to reduce our travel and contacts to what is strictly necessary. From tomorrow and for at least 15 days, our travel will be very much reduced. This means that outward reunions, family or friendly gatherings will no longer be allowed. Walking, uh, meeting friends in the park, on the street, it won't be possible anymore. It is a matter of limiting to the maximum his contacts beyond the home everywhere in French territory, both in metropolis and overseas, only the necessary journeys must remain, necessary to go shopping with discipline and putting the distances of at least one meter by shaking hands, not embracing the routes necessary to care, the journeys necessary to go to work, when remote work is not possible and the journeys necessary to do some activity, but again without finding friends or relatives. All companies must organize themselves to facilitate remote work and, when this is not possible, they will have to adapt their organisation tomorrow to ensure that these gestures against the virus are respected, that is, protected, their employees or when it comes to independence protect. Even the government will specify the terms and conditions of these new rules as soon as this evening after my allowance, and every breach has its rules, if I say so very solemnly, let us listen to the caregivers who tell us. If you want to help us, you have to stay at home and limit contacts. Of course, that's the most important thing. Tonight, I'm setting new rules. We place prohibitions. There will be but the best rule is that you, as a citizen, apply to yourself. And once again, I appeal to your sense of responsibility and the In this context, after consulting with the President of the Senate, the President of the National Assembly, but also, but I decided that the second round of municipal elections would be postponed, the Prime Minister informed the leaders of the parties represented in the Parliament. There was unanimous agreement on this decision. My dear compatriots, I measure the impact of all these decisions on your lives. To give up seeing your loved ones is a rip. Stopping his daily activities, his habits, is very difficult. This must not prevent us from keeping the bond, calling our loved ones, giving news, also organising things with our neighbours, inventing new solidarity between generations, staying as I told you last Thursday, deeply in solidarity and innovating. Here too, on this point, I know that I ask you to stay at home. I also ask you to keep calm in this context. I've seen panic in the last few hours. All in all, we must all have a spirit of responsibility. You should not have false information circulating at all times and by staying at home, take care of the relatives who are in your apartment or house. Giving news took news. Read also to find this sense of the essentials. I think it's important in the moments we live in. Culture, education, The meaning of things is important and avoid the panic spirit, to believe in all the photos, half excuses, false knowing the word is clear. The information is transparent and we will continue the year. But believe me, this effort I ask of you, I know it's new, but circumstances force us to do so. We're at war, we're at health war. Certainly, we are fighting against one army and against another nation, but the enemy is there, invisible, elusive, progressing and this requires our general mobilization. We're at war. All the action of the government and Parliament must now be directed towards the fight against the epidemic. Day or night, nothing should entertain us. That is why I have decided that all ongoing reforms will be suspended, starting with pension reform. On Wednesday, in the Council of Ministers, will be presented a bill allowing the government to respond to the urgency and, when necessary, to legislate by ordinance in areas strictly falling under crisis management. This project will be in the Parliament of I saw just now the Presidents of the National Assembly and the Senate so that this text is voted as quickly as possible, so that the democratic life and control of Parliament continues in this. I thank them for that and I thank all our parliamentarians. Right now, we're at war. I call on all political, economic, social and associative actors, all French people, to join this national union that has enabled our country to overcome so many crises in the past. We are at war and the nation will support its children who, health care workers in the city or in the hospital, find themselves on the front line in a fight that will require them energy, determination and solidarity. They have rights over us obviously owe them the means, and we will be there. We owe them masses, frost, all the necessary material and we will watch and watch out for it. Together with the scientists, we decided to reserve masks as a matter of priority for the hospital and for city and country medicine, especially general practitioners. Nurses now also on the front line in crisis management. Masks will be delivered to pharmacies tomorrow evening in the twenty five most affected departments on Wednesday for the rest of the national territory. I also heard the message from specialists, especially dental surgeons and many others. Solutions will be found with the Minister of Health in the next few hours. We also owe the caregivers the custody of their children. A minimum childcare service has been in place since that day in nurseries and schools. We also owe them serenity in their movements and rest. That is why I decided that from tomorrow, taxis and hotels can be mobilized for their benefit. The state will pay. We're at war. Yes, in this period the country will accompany the regions most affected today, such as those that will be affected tomorrow. In this capacity, I want to assure the inhabitants, the health care staff of the Great East, that we will be meeting to support them in the face of the influx of patients and the saturation of hospitals. I know what they've been through for days and days. We're with them. For this reason, I decided that a field hospital of the military health service would be deployed in the coming days. In Alsace, the armies will also help to move patients from the most affected regions and thus reduce congestion in hospitals in certain territories. We are also at war, as I told you Thursday, to protect us and contain the spread of the virus, but also to preserve a system of. This morning we have taken a joint decision between Europeans as early as noon tomorrow, the borders at the entry of the European Union and the Schengen area will be closed. In practical terms, all travel between non-European countries and the European Union will be suspended for 30 days. French and French people who are currently abroad and wish to return will of course be able to join their country. We must make this decision because I am asking you to make great efforts tonight and we must protect ourselves in the long term. And I want to say to all our compatriots who live abroad that, here too, they must get closer to embassies and consulates and that we organize their repatriation for those who wish to do so and where necessary. As you will have understood, this unprecedented health crisis will have human, social and economic consequences. It is also this challenge that we owe. I'm asking you for sacrifices to slow down the epidemic. They must never call into question the help of the most fragile. The sustainability of a company, the means of subsistence of employees and self-employed persons for the most disadvantaged, for the isolated. We will ensure, together with the major associations, with the local authorities and their services, that they can be nourished, protected, and that the services we owe them are provided for economic life. As far as France is concerned, no company, regardless of its size, will be delivered at the risk of bankruptcy. No Frenchman, no Frenchman will be left without resources. With regard to businesses, we are putting in place an exceptional system of tax and social charges, support for the postponement of bank maturities and a State guarantee of up to three hundred billion euros for all bank loans made to banks for the smallest of them, since the situation of the rat, those who face difficulties will have nothing to pay, neither for taxes nor for social contributions, water, gas or electricity bills and rents will have to be suspended. In addition, in order to ensure that no one is left without resources for the employees, the system of partial unemployment will be massively expanded. As I announced to you last Thursday, and as the government has begun to specify for entrepreneurs, traders and craftsmen, a solidarity fund will be created, abundated by the state and to which the Prime Minister will propose to the regions too to contribute. The government will clarify all of these measures tomorrow. They will be according to needs, the economic realities of necessities, sector by sector obviously adapted. We will be there to ensure that our economy is preserved in this future period and that all workers can have this security also in terms of purchasing power and continuity. My dear compatriots, France is going through a very difficult time. No one can predict exactly how long it will last, and as the days following the days, as the problems follow the problem, it will be necessary in connection with the insights given by the field experiments. We'll have to adapt. We will also continue during this period of work and progress on treatments. I know the dedication of several teams across our territory, with the first hopes emerging and we will also continue to make progress on the vaccine. I will speak to you regularly. I will tell you every time, as I have done, as the government does, the truth about the evolution of the situation. I have a certainty. The more we act together and quickly, the more we will overcome this ordeal, the more we will act as citizens, the more we will show the same spirit of the same patriotic selflessness demonstrated today by our caregivers, our firefighters and all civil security actors. The sooner we get out of this life in slow motion, we will succeed, my dear compatriots, by being united and in solidarity, I ask you to be responsible all together and not to give in to any panic to accept these constraints, to carry them, to explain them, to apply them to yourself. We all apply them. There will be no straight pass, but there will also be a CD. Neither panic nor water, we will win. But this period will have taught us a lot. Many certainties, conviction are swept away. Will be questioned many things that we thought. Impossible happens. Let us not let us act forcefully, but let us hold that the next day, when we win, it will not be a return to the days before. We'll be stronger morally. We will have learned, and I will also be with you, to draw all the consequences, all the consequences. They are us individually and collectively, at the height of the moment. I know, my dear compatriots, I can count on you. Long live the Republic, long live France! French, French, My dear compatriots. When I addressed you on the twenty-eighth of October last, I pledged to report to you on the evolution of the epidemic and the decisions that could be taken accordingly. A month later, where are we? The number of positive cases daily to the agreement of nineteen has strongly. It was over sixty thousand. Last week, there were an average of twenty thousand cases a day, after reaching thirty three thousand five hundred hospitalized patients on 16 November, more than in the first wave. We also started a slow decline. The number of people in resuscitation, as a result of the agreement of nineteen, has increased from four thousand nine hundred on 16 November to four thousand three hundred today. From these data, it appears that the peak of the second wave of the epidemic has passed. In my last speech, we feared much worse figures and we avoided them. On the one hand, because our efforts, your efforts have paid off. Your civic spirit has been effective, and also because we have learned to better manage and treat patients in order to avoid some of the serious forms that would have struck our fellow citizens and to put even more pressure on our resuscitation services. Here I want to pay tribute to the dedication of the caregivers who, both in the city and in the hospital, wanted to cooperate, innovate despite fatigue and fatigue. I salute all the professionals, the associations, the volunteers who also have here, it is all together that we have achieved these results. It's all together that we saved. If we have been able to slow down the circulation of the virus, we must not lose sight of our other concerns. First, we need to continue to treat sometimes resuming care for others. We also need to prepare for the long-term consequences of the virus. Scientists and experts are already working with health insurance, a long-term follow-up of patients in the municipality. Nineteen I also ask the government to prepare a strategy to take into account the psychological consequences of the pandemic and the various containment. I know in particular how much older people at home and in nursing homes, how people with disabilities have suffered and still suffer from their isolation, and how long we must accompany them. Finally, we must intensify our vigilance to prevent and respond to violence against women and children during this period of time. Certainly, therefore, we have curbed the circulation of the virus, but it remains very present in France as in the entire northern hemisphere, in Europe, the United States, Canada, Russia Yes, still circulating very heavily. Today, we have reached fifty thousand deaths due to the epidemic. And while the overall situation is improving in France and in our overseas countries, in some regions, it remains a matter of great concern. We still have several weeks before us to achieve the objectives I had set which allows us to control. The epidemic is therefore to stabilize the number of contamination around five thousand people and to have between two thousand five hundred and three thousand people in resuscitation beds. Therefore, I am addressing you this evening to say that we must continue our efforts. What are our objectives? Save lives as much as possible, control the epidemic while taking into account the other patients in the best possible way. The isolation of some our and what makes life, education culture, sport, our way of living, adapt the response to the territory, especially for in Outremer or specific plans by territory will be. To do this, we must continue for several weeks to avoid many activities in enclosed places that speed up the dissemination of the and limit the rallies as much as possible. From then on, I want to be able to set a course tonight, a sketched timetable, a new stage will begin on Saturday morning, the twenty-eighth of November. First of all, there's what's not going to change. The appropriate containment and therefore the certification system will remain in effect. Because that is what has enabled us to achieve these good results. It will therefore be necessary to continue to stay at home and work whenever possible, to give up private reunions, family gatherings and all necessary travel. But by next Saturday morning, many will actually be. First of all, trips for reasons of walking. Outdoor physical activity will now be allowed within a radius of twenty kilometers. And for three hours, extracurricular outdoor activities will again be for cults. Offices will again be permitted within a strict limit of thirty persons. Finally, and I know how great the expectation is and how much it contributes to our daily life, to the life of our city centers, our village centers. Finally, all shops will be able to reopen and home services resume, but within the framework of a strict sanitary protocol that has been negotiated with all the professionals that I want to thank here. Shops and services will therefore be able to reopen according to its rules, up to 21 hours at the latest. The bookstores, archives libraries will also be able to reopen in the second stage, on December 15th and December 15th. If we have arrived around five thousand contamination a day and about two thousand five hundred to three thousand people in resuscitation, then we can take a new course. Then the containment can be lifted. Therefore, we will not be able to move again without permission, even between and spend Christmas with the family. It will be necessary to limit the blown movements as much as possible and find themselves. Yes, but I appeal to your sense of responsibility. It will not be a Christmas holiday like any other. Extracurricular activities in the room for the reception of children during the holidays will again be allowed with strict rules. Cinema theatres, theatres and museums will be able to resume their activities, always within the framework of the health protocols that have been negotiated. And a roda tage system will make it possible to organize performances at the end of the day. Here I want to say how much I and how much we support all those involved in culture to whom I know. We have asked so much, but who have held, who have created, innovated, find new audiences. In this context so difficult, we need. Our citizens need, indeed, to be able to have a life, uh, if I may say, and activities to the fullest. And culture belongs to our lives as free citizens. Strong constraints will remain during this, however, large gatherings will be banned, as well as all festive events in the halls. To rent all places that, like amusement parks, exhibition centers are likely to gather. Many people from different regions will remain closed. Similarly, bars, restaurants and discos will not be able to reopen their doors. Unfortunately, during this period, concerning winter sports resorts. A consultation was initiated by the Government with local elected officials and professionals. The decisions will be finalized very soon, but it seems impossible to envisage an opening for the holidays is much better to give preference to a reopening in January in good ones. We will agree on this with our European neighbours. The logic of all these decisions is the same to the maximum. Limit all activities that multiply gatherings, lead people to gather unprotected in enclosed places and gradually allow to reopen where one can protect oneself and where distances where gestures, barriers are possible everywhere in the territory. During this period, therefore, from the 15th of December, a curfew of twenty-one o'clock to seven o'clock in the morning will be put in place, and will not be able to move freely on the evenings of the twenty-third and third December to share these moments with the family. But rallies on public roads will not be tolerated throughout this period. You have a central role for our collective success. Private meetings must be limited to the maximum, the number of adults together in one room at the same time, and we must all, uh, respect the health rules between us to protect everyone. The next step will be on January 20. Indeed, by that date, we will have sufficient hindsight when the holiday season returns. And as you know, it always takes about 15 days to see exactly the consequences of changing our behaviour. And so it is around 20 January that we will then be able to take new decisions, if possible. If the number of contamination remains below five thousand cases a day, the gyms and restaurants will be able to open and the curfew to be the high schools, which often now operates in two classes, can at that time be fully reopened with all the students present during the classes. Fifteen days later, it is the universities that will be able to resume the courses with a physical presence of all. In this way, we will take stock of the situation every two weeks and then decide whether we can take additional measures of openness or whether, on the contrary, we must go back to prevent any further spread of the virus, because we must do everything we can to avoid a third wave. Do everything to avoid a third. For this, and in the coming months, we have three tools in our hands. The, it is the spirit of responsibility of all. We're not you're not passive during this crisis. We all have a role to play. During the end of the year holidays, we will all meet with our loved ones. We are, of course, pleased about that. And all in those moments, we are tempted to lower the guard, released, the. But if we do not want to undergo the third containment tomorrow, we must redouble our vigilance. Protect our loved ones, especially the most vulnerable, wearing the mask, including at home, when we are with friends or with relatives who do not live daily with us, make sure not to be too many at the table, called that we scrupulously all gestures, barriers, wash hands, respect the distances ventilated all hours, The parts, it's common sense and requirement. But each of us has in our hands a part of the solution. Our second is strategy. Test, alerted, protect, heal, which we are reorganizing to make it much more effective. In my view, this is the most important tool in the coming weeks and months to control the virus. Test. We are, as you know, one of the most testing countries in Europe. At the beginning of January, no test should take more than 24 hours between the request to test its result. It will be true SR hates that we will continue to deploy. As for antigenic tests that achieve a result in less than 30 minutes, they will be used massively, especially for people who have symptoms when they need to be screened quickly, for example, in a school, in a nursing home. In this area, innovations continue to continue and, I hope, will make even better and simpler alerts. In the coming weeks, we need to improve our organization in order to break the chain of contamination at the root much faster by identifying more fully all the so-called contact cases, i.e.. All those who have been exposed to someone who has the rating, the all-ancient application in vacuum that you are almost ten million who have downloaded you have to continue is essential to identify them, let's use it to the fullest in shops and when they open in restaurants, in places of culture, wherever we gather, it is a valuable help in supporting health insurance. Already, more than ten thousand people call contact cases every day and we will continue to train, hire new volunteers to protect us. I hope that the government and Parliament will provide the conditions to ensure that people are isolated, including in a more stringent manner. A real democratic debate must take place. But if we want to avoid one, we must be more binding on those and those who have the most. These people will be accompanied at EU level. Sanitary, psychological This new strategy will combine, in addition to State services, mayors and their services as well as associations concerned, cared for and treated. Much progress has been made and we can welcome the mobilization of our. We must continue to improve the management and treatment of diagnoses in city medicine and in hospital to further reduce forms. Finally, the third tool that will allow us to cope with the virus in the coming weeks and months. And for all of us, a great glimmer of hope is the vaccine. Our strategy is based on many. Some will be by the end of December early January and a second generation will arrive in the spring. Our plan in this area, first of all, the number of doses, we have done it with the European Union and the Commission, buying from producers, putting in the capacity to produce as much as possible in Europe, and the number of doses being divided according to the population of each Member State. The first vaccines, subject to the results of clinical trials, may be administered upon validation by the competent health authorities. Secondly, guarantee health security. A scientific committee will be responsible for monitoring vaccination. A collective of citizens will also be set up to involve the population more broadly. And I want this to be done in a totally transparent framework. Vaccination must be done in a clear, transparent way, sharing in every state all the information, what we know and what we do not know and I also want to be. I'm not making vaccination mandatory. Finally, we will organize a rapid and massive vaccination campaign as close as possible to people as possible. The High Health Authority will present these recommendations in the coming days. The health authorities together with the State, the local authorities will define the practical modalities for the deployment of vaccines with hospitals, nursing homes and all city doctors. We will probably start by the end of December in early January, subject to validation by the authorities, by vaccinating the most vulnerable and therefore the most. Successive steps will be presented in order to allow the vaccination of as many people as possible. As you can see, the return to normal will not be tomorrow. But I am convinced that we can control the epidemic over the long term. We collectively have the means to succeed in mastering and defeating this virus. Everyone has a role to play. Everyone has a responsibility. At the same time, we have to face an unprecedented economic and social crisis. It is the consequence of the first and of what we are experiencing. I was announcing it to you as early as July. The crisis is likely to worsen further. But we have an answer. Bring we did it from the beginning. Since the first day, we have been acting for employees, with partial unemployment for the most precarious, ad hoc aid and the extension of rights, particularly for the unemployed, companies and self-employed, in particular with state-guaranteed loans, cancellations and postponements of burdens. The Solidarity Fund, whatever it costs, was not only a formula, but rather acts and one. We reinforced that response in the second wave, and I want to thank the Prime Minister and the entire government, which, by working together, makes it possible to complete things. New social assistance has been decided upon at one hundred and fifty euros, which will be paid over the weekend to beneficiaries of the RSA and the special solidarity allowance for scholarship students and young people under the age of 25 who are not students receiving housing allowances. One hundred euros per child will be paid for families benefiting from the calls. In total, four million families and one million three hundred thousand young people will be Aid to businesses have been significantly increased by shifting the maturity of loans guaranteed by the state under review by again exempting burdens by increasing to ten thousand euros the solidarity fund, especially for those acquired independent, traders, We asked, I am aware, a lot of effort, a lot of sacrifices, even though he feared losing the fruit of a working life. They are all essential, all to the life of our. In the next few days, we will continue to supplement this aid. In addition to existing facilities, Barr restaurants, sports halls, discotheques, all establishments that remain administratively closed will be paid, regardless of their size, twenty percent of their figure for the year two thousand and nine, if this option is preferable for them to the ten thousand euros of the solidarity funds. I know the sacrifices we have asked many of these companies. I know how much our restaurateurs, the entrepreneurs we have closed down administratively, want to work, do not want to be helped. They want to be able to keep getting up early in the morning and do what is their job at the same time, their passion. I am aware of the sacrifice we are asking them. That is why we are going to provide this exceptional help until 20 January, I hope the date when we will be able to Leo, the seasonal workers, the Extra who have no more commitment for months, the precarious who worked in previous years. But we can't find a job anymore. Young people who arrive found neither student job nor first job. Let's find an exceptional response to their situation. The Government will present this response in the next few days. One young, a solution will be the subject of increased resources and I invite all young people to inquire about the platform provided for this purpose. All these decisions are the result of extensive consultations carried out by the Prime Minister and his Government with the social partners, local elected representatives and political forces. They're illuminated over there. There are many things that we do not control, but I accept the decisions I set out to you today and I assume to make them to protect you as much as possible. In this exceptional context, my dear compatriots, I am aware that I have given you a lot of details this evening, but I think it was necessary to allow you to do so. Figure in the next few weeks, how we will organize ourselves. If we all hold on, there is always a lot of uncertainty and we must keep a lot of humility in this matter. This virus has taught us, but I will do everything I can to fight with you to protect you and manage this epidemic. This trial that has lasted for almost a year, is difficult for each of us and we are not and I do not want us to let ourselves go either to resignation or to the. I am optimistic because every crisis involves a share of progress, a part of hope. Look how the last nine months have also allowed us to achieve what we had thought was impossible for a long time. We have been able to make our state more effective in dealing with both health and economic emergencies. We collectively transformed the hospital, our care system. We have relied on digital technology to bring traders closer to citizens in the territories, to continue working, to learn how to care. We have demonstrated a capacity for innovation, a sense of inventiveness that will be decisive in building the and facing the crises that come. We have been in solidarity like never before. We also identified some of our weaknesses. A perfect organization, too much bureaucracy, sometimes an uneven sense of responsibility. A lack of sovereignty, sometimes also for some of our productions. In the coming months, we will have to consolidate its strengths that sometimes we did not suspect and correct its vulnerabilities that sometimes we do not see. To do this, we will have to rely on knowledge and science, never give in to conspiracy, relativistic obscurantism. We will have to continue to innovate, to, to undertake the strength of the French spirit. We will have to rebuild our economy by investing, working and working together. In this regard, the EUR 100 billion recovery plan helps prepare for the future of our economy by creating jobs in new sectors, developments. But for the coming weeks, we each owe a spirit of responsibility to the nation. We owe each other a great deal of kindness. The minds are sometimes tired, the debates are warming up and in this, we must not let ourselves get carried away. Let us stand together around our values, around our history, in this attachment to our democracy, to our humanism that remains today as we did yesterday, all of us safer, then we can have a new French future. My dear compatriots, once again we will be, I am sure of it. At the meeting of the challenges of the coming weeks and months. Our generation together has to defeat this epidemic, confront terrorism, confront the climate crisis and the inequality crisis. Today we hold together. Tomorrow we will win together. Long live the Republic, long live France! representing more than half of the national capacity. Unlike the first wave, all regions are now at the alert threshold in many locations to manage patients. Coville nineteen We started programs and operations of the heart or cancer, sometimes the same ones that had to be shifted in the spring. We took action, they were already difficult. I know they have been perceived as such by many of you. They were indispensable and they were often challenged because it was not happy. However, it is insufficient to stem a wave that is now affecting the whole of Europe. Our strategy was defined as early as the summer, it was to live with the virus. It was about controlling its circulation by relying on our capabilities to test, alerted, protected on gestures, on the protection of the most fragile and measures to slow the epidemic territorialized as close as possible. This is what we have done since August. Before all of us, no. As I said two weeks ago, we can always improve, but we have done everything we can and I deeply believe that our strategy was, given the information we had, the right one. It was, moreover, that of all European countries. We could have gone faster at first, on the tests. But for several weeks we have been one of the most testing countries in Europe. Collectively, perhaps we should have more respected the barriers, especially within family or with friends who are the places where we are most contaminated. Should we blame it now. Above all, we must recognize that, like all our neighbours, we are overwhelmed by the sudden acceleration of the epidemic by a virus that seems to be gaining strength as winter approaches and temperatures drop. Once again, you have to have a lot of humility. We are all in Europe, surprised by the evolution of the. Some countries such as Ireland Spain, the Netherlands took earlier measures harder than others. Yet, all of us are at the same point, overflowed by a second wave which, as we now know, will probably be harder and more deadly than the first wave. At this point, we know that, however, nearly nine thousand patients will be in resuscitation by mid-November, almost all of France's capabilities. We organize ourselves, we organize of course, to cope with it, reopen extra beds and we will make the maximum effort all together. But that's not enough. If we do not give a brutal brake today to our hospitals will soon be saturated, without this time we have the opportunity to transfer a lot of patients from one region to another, because the virus is everywhere. If today we do not put a brutal brake on contamination, then doctors will have to choose here between a patient with kop, emptying a person victim of a road accident, the between two patients with empty bodies, what, given our values, what she has, what we are, is in this context. My responsibility is to protect all French people. And in spite of the controversy, despite the difficulty of the decisions, I fully assume it before you tonight, what are our objectives? First, he's the first protected. The older, the most fragile, those who are suffering from diabetes, obesity, hypertension, chronic diseases, and who are the first victims on the side of nineteen age and the preponderant factor. Eighty-five per cent of deceased patients are over seventy years of age. Our second goal is to protect the youngest. I already said it. If the virus kills the older, they also kill, even if it is rare, the youngest today, when I tell you about thirty five percent of people in resuscitation at least sixty five years, so it affects in serious forms all. And today we do not know what the long-term aftermath are. Loss of smell, loss of taste, difficulty breathing. This virus is never harmless, even when you are 20 years old. Third objective is to protect those who, in the hospital, in the medico-social structures, have already given much of it during the spring. They then had to redouble their activity during the summer to catch up with the acts postponed in the spring. And despite the tiredness, today they face this sudden rise in emergencies. We owe them to take all of them to limit the spread of the virus. If we do not do for ourselves, for our loved ones let us do it for them, the third is to protect the most modest people who, because they live in smaller places because they are in precarious jobs, are most affected by the virus in terms of health. But they are also the ones most affected by the economic and social consequences of the crisis. Finally, we must protect our economy. I do not believe in the opposition between economic health. Some would like to introduce. There is no prosperous economy in a deteriorated health situation, with a virus actively circulating. And I tell you very clearly, there is also no health care system that holds if there is not a strong economy to fund it. It is therefore a right balance that we must constantly seek, without losing sight of an intangible principle. For us, nothing is more important than human life. What are the possible strategies for achieving its objectives? We could some advocate doing nothing and assuming, letting the virus circulate. This is called the search for collective immunity that is to say. When fifty sixty percent of the population has been contaminated, the scientific board to evaluate the consequences of such an option, they are a very short term. This means that sorting between patients in the hospital and within a few months, it is at least four hundred thousand additional deaths to deplore. France will never adopt this strategy. We will never let hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens die. These are not our values. That's not our interest either. A second way would be to confine the only people at risk. This path is also not at the moment when I speak to you usable first, it presupposes an ethical discussion, but on the one hand, our elders like vulnerable people or often in need of outside assistance for their care, their household, the delivery of their meals, some also live with their relatives of their children, often for lack of means. And so creating a form of bubbles around a generation of certain people, as a barrier between generations, is unrealistic and at this stage insufficient. On the other hand, the virus also develops and develops severe forms in the youngest and thus confined. The elderly alone is ineffective because the virus would still circulate too fast and in severe forms. In the rest of and therefore we could not protect our caregivers in the emergency room and even eventually, our elders. With this strategy, it may be relevant, it is not enough. We could also somehow make Paris bet everything on the strategy of the test is alerted. After all, we perform a comma nine million tests per week. We are one of the best countries in Europe. Today, thanks to the remarkable work of the health insurance of the regional health agencies, one hundred thousand calls are made every day to identify contacts and break the chains of contamination. But if this system can be effective with a few thousand cases a day, today we have between forty and fifty thousand daily contamination. Probably, in reality, double the test. This system is no longer effective and no European country is retained today. As for the trail of increasing our resuscitation capabilities, which some people refer to as a path that would allow us not to take difficult action today, I will tell you very clearly that we are doing so. But this is not a good answer either. We have the drug stocks, the respirators, the masks, the blues, leaving all the necessary equipment, because we learned from our shortcomings of moments during the first face, we also trained nearly seven million seven thousand nurses and doctors to be able to work in resuscitation. And so we pushed our capabilities that went from five thousand beds before. The first wave assimilates today and we will carry them, beyond, of, of, in resuscitation. So a colossal effort has been made in training and investment, but it is not enough in the face of this wave, we are also acting in the medium term. Health is hard, which corresponds to eight billion investments per year invested in the hospital and our health will enhance the attractiveness of the professions. But it takes fifty to form one, asserted reanimators. Ten years to train an anesthesiologist. There is no magic solution. It's not in a few months that we really have a totally different capacity. Nor will we be able to, given the fact that other European countries are using a foreign workforce to the rest, even though we could open a lot more beds and despite the doubling effort, we have succeeded. Who can seriously want thousands of our compatriots to spend weeks in resuscitation with the medical consequences it entails? So what is the right strategy today? Confining the older, the most vulnerable? Test, alert, protect, increase resuscitation beds? None of these solutions is sufficient. As it stands. We need to go further after consulting scientists, dialogue with political, economic and social forces. After having also exchanged with all our European partners and weighing the pros and the, I decided that from Friday we had to find the containment that stopped the All national territory is concerned, with adaptations only for the departments and territories besides, but because we learned from the events of spring, this containment will be adapted on three main points. Schools will remain open, work will continue. Ehpad and retirement homes can be. What will be the rules of this new stage? And tomorrow the government will be detailing them at a press conference. First of all, what will not change from what we experienced in spring and spring, you can leave your home only to work, go to a medical appointment to assist a loved one to do your essential shopping or get some fresh air near your home. It is therefore the return of the certificate. As in spring, private meetings outside the strict family core will therefore be excluded. Public gatherings will be prohibited and you will not be able to travel from one region to another, with the exception of all Saints holiday returns. And so there will be a tolerance during this return weekend so that everyone can return from their holiday place so that families can find the businesses that were defined in the spring as non-essential. Public establishments, including bars and restaurants, will be closed as in spring. Whatever it costs, this economic response is one of the most protective in the world. Continue. It will be even more important, which is more important for our small businesses, which are administratively closed with up to ten thousand euros a month of their turnover losses, while employees and employers who cannot work will continue to benefit from unemployment and will supplement us with measures of cash for expenses, rents for the next few weeks and a special plan will be made for self-employed, traders, very small and medium-sized enterprises that, I know, fears more than anything. The next few weeks. Compared to March April, we have, as I said, made progress at a price. That is why some rules will evolve. First, our children cannot be permanently deprived of education, education, contact with the system, too many consequences, too much damage, especially for the most modest. Nurseries, schools, colleges and high schools will therefore remain open with strengthened health protocols. In contrast, faculties and higher education institutions will provide online courses. Wherever possible, teleworking will again be widespread. But, and this is a second difference from spring, the activity will continue with more intensity. This means that the public service counters will remain open. Factories, farms, buildings and public works will continue to operate. The economy must neither stop nor collapse. I therefore invite you, as far as possible, to participate in this effort by working, supporting companies that, close to you, have innovated through remote orders, take-away or home delivery. The government, moreover, will accompany very small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as craftsmen, who will undertake digitization efforts. Our internal borders within the European area will remain open and, with exceptions, the external borders will remain closed. Of course, the French abroad will remain free to return to the territory in ports and airports for international travel. Required quick tests will be deployed for all arrivals. No traveller should be allowed to enter European territory without being certain that he is not a carrier of the virus. Finally, in order to prevent human tragedies that we experienced in the spring or people at the end of their lives are completely isolated. Visits to nursing homes and Ehpad will be allowed this time in strict compliance with sanitary rules. I also want people with disabilities to be able to benefit from the flexibility they need. As for the cemetery, in this period marked by All Saints, they will remain open and I want us to continue to bury our loved ones with dignity. This new containment will succeed only by mobilizing everyone, and everyone has a role to play in the people at risk, the most vulnerable, the people over the age of seventy. I ask for increased vigilance. Less meetings with family, with friends, even if it is a dying heart and respect for physical distancing, including at home. Wearing the systematic mask when you are inside in the presence of another person, even a loved one, even a child, a small child, it is very important for us, the caregivers in the hospital obviously play an essential role in this context. But we need city doctors, nurses, pharmacists, all social medicine actors, all city health professionals to ensure early care of patients at the first symptoms and to prevent complex forms from developing, we need our elected officials. Our mothers played an essential role and I have this one, mayor, president, presidents of intercommunal metropolis, elected from the ground. We will need you in an even greater way to propose, go further in prevention, mobilize our associations to accompany the most isolated and less informed people and ensure the proper implementation of the measures taken, whether it be with our young people in the after-school period or to accompany people the most vulnerable. The most. We need our internal security forces to ensure the application of the measures of our civil security forces to deploy platforms, to test them in contact with the population. We also need the sense of responsibility of everyone and the spirit of citizenship, of all. Stay at home, stick to the rules. Once again, I tell you, success depends on the good citizenship of each and every one of us. How is this new stage going to take place over time? Every hour counts. All these measures must therefore be implemented as soon as possible. They will be in the night from Thursday to Friday and will be applied to a minimum until December 1. As of tomorrow, a debate followed by a vote will be held at the. As of tomorrow, the Government will detail all these measures. We must honour ourselves with this transparency and the fact that difficult decisions are made in a democratic framework in which all opposition can be expressed. Also tomorrow, I will be participating in a European Council to coordinate the health responses of the various countries of the Union. Every fortnight, we will take stock of the evolution of the epidemic. If necessary, we will decide on additional measures and we will then assess whether we can alleviate certain constraints, particularly on businesses. I know a lot of people hoped not to close. I know that for downtown businesses, I need a very big effort. Hold it with great rigor for fifteen days. If within 15 days we have a better understanding of the situation, then we will be able to evaluate things and hoped to open some businesses, especially in this important period. Before Christmas, we will see if we can cultivate the hope of celebrating this precious Christmas and holiday season with our family. Our ultimate goal is simple. Reducing contamination very sharply increased from forty thousand contamination per day to five thousand. Slow down significantly. The pace of hospital admissions is under resuscitation, and only then can we fully redeploy a strategy. Test, alerted, protected, renew, completed. That is why, during these weeks, we will also be making massive efforts to implement many more testing platforms through innovations and a new organization. We must collectively deploy much more massively. The all ancient application to vacuum, which will be an instrument of the exit of this containment phase, test in thirty minutes better tracing, more effective isolation of positive people which is a subject on which we must continue to reflect once the epidemic peak passed. All of these tools should allow us to keep up with the vaccine in the summer, scientists tell us. My dear compatriots, we were all surprised by the sudden acceleration of the epidemic. All, if I know the weariness and this impression of an endless day that all nougat, We must, no matter what happens, remain united and united and not yield to the poison of division. This time is difficult because it is experiencing our resilience and unity. But she is a revealing of who we are, of the women and men who are connected to each other. Very few generations will have had like ours. All these challenges together this historic pandemic, international crises, terrorism, divisions of society and an unprecedented economic crisis linked to the first wave. But I have confidence in us, with a view to confidence in our ability to overcome this ordeal. We must hold everyone in our place, in transparency, in debate, in determination to apply the rules we set ourselves, and by clasping together again, we will rise again if we are united and we will be. We need each other. We are a united and united nation, and it is on this condition that we will achieve it. We're here, I'm counting on every one of you. I'll be there, we'll be there and we'll all get there together. Long live the Republic and live France! French, French, my dear compatriots from France and others. For the third time since the beginning of my term of office, I have the honour to address you on December 31. At this time of holiday at the end of the year when, for the most part, you are reunited with family or with your loved ones, I first want to have a warm thought for those who are sick. So they are. I would like to salute our compatriots who, again tonight, are on the job. No gendarmes, police and fire brigades. Our staff, caregivers, civil servants and employees of the private or voluntary sector, are watching over us again this evening so that we can live these few hours in peace. We all need it because in the past year we have experienced moments of hardship. The deaths of our soldiers in the fight against terrorism, the assassination of our police officers in the police prefecture of Paris, the violence that has shaken the life of our country, the natural disasters that affected France in France as moments of emotion, the disappearance of President Chirac, the fire that ignited Notre-Dame with the great national debate over the anger expressed by the yellow vests movement. We have been able to establish a respectful and republican dialogue without precedent in one and to make significant decisions. At the same time, we began to perceive the first results of the transformation effort undertaken over the past two and a half years in reality. More than five hundred thousand jobs have been created since May two thousand and seven, often benefiting people far from the world of work for a long time, the creation of ever-increasing companies, international investment in our economy superior to our neighbours of the factories that reopen and allow territories struggling to reconnect with hope. France had not experienced such momentum for years. All of this we did together. Because these good figures that make France every day, plus they are first yours. The fruit of your work, the risks taken by our entrepreneurs, our artisans, our merchants, our farmers, the creative genius of our inventors and our artists, the commitment of workers, employees, engineers. It is also an encouragement to continue the movement. I was telling you, these are my third wishes. Usually, this is the time of the mandate. We are renouncing to act vigorously in order not to displease anyone with the approach of future electoral deadlines. Municipal, senatorial, departmental, regional and presidential. We have no right to give in to this fatality. It is the opposite that has to happen. Tonight I make a commitment to devote all my energy to transforming our country to make it stronger, fairer, more humane. I am aware that changes often upset, but concerns cannot lead to inaction because there is too much to do. I also see how often decisions can be frustrated, provoked fears and opposition. But give up changing our country and our daily lives? No, because that would give up what the system has already abandoned. It would betray our children, their children. After who then would have to pay the price of our renunciation. That is why the pension reform to which I have pledged before you, which is being carried out by the government, will be completed. Because it is a project of justice and social progress, a project of justice and social progress because it ensures universality. The aim is to ensure that a euro of contributions paid opens up the same rights for everyone from the first hour of work. This is far from the case today. A project for justice and social progress Because it translates into more equity, we will take into account the difficult tasks so that those who exercise them can leave earlier, without being linked to a status or a company. We want everyone to be able to benefit from a dignified pension, especially those who are forgotten in the present system. Women whose pensions are almost twice as low as men, those with chopped careers, traders, craftsmen, farmers who feed us. But after that, a working life receives only a few hundred euros per month of pension. Finally, the millions of French people who today are forced to work beyond sixty four years to have their entire retirement a project of justice and social progress. Finally, because it is based on a principle of responsibility, it is a question of ensuring the balance of the distribution system that has been ours since the National Resistance Council and thus its solidity through the. It is the basis of solidarity between generations. It means ensuring that those who work are able to pay our seniors for their fair retirement in a world. And it's an opportunity to study more and more later and to live longer. So make no mistake, on this very important subject, which is at the very heart of French identity, I hear the fears and anxieties that are emerging. I also hear a lot of lies and manipulations. Calming, always, must take precedence over calming confrontation does not mean renouncing, but respecting ourselves. In our disagreements. My only compass is and will be in the interest of our country, our ability to provide the best possible retirement for our seniors, the defence of those who do not always have the capacity to speak out, that is, our children. That is why, with the trade union and employers' organisations that want to do so, I expect the government of Edouard Philippe to find the voice of a rapid compromise, in accordance with the principles I have just mentioned. My dear compatriots, in a few hours a new decade will open. I see expectations, impatience, and like you, I too am eager to see the situation improve faster for all of us, especially for the most fragile among us. We change things, but sometimes we have to catch up a lot. This is not done in a day. So, at the dawn of this new decade, I want to assure you that I will not give in to pessimism or immobility. I am the guarantor of what makes our country. France, our institutions, our vital forces of our social security, our culture, our secularism, equality between women and men of our solidarity. Like you, I care about what unites us, who we are. We don't have to adapt in the course of things. It is not France, but to remain faithful to who we are, building a new society that responds, according to our choices, to the ongoing upheavals. More than ever, it will be essential to put work and merit at the heart of our action. Much has been done by the government to get more French people to work and to make the work pay better. We must continue on this path the reduction of income tax, the complete elimination of the housing tax for a large majority of you will be two thousand and five realities. I want us to continue to encourage the initiative, to simplify, to allow more innovation, to allow us to work better, to share the wealth created in all businesses, to help our farmers and fishermen, to live with dignity from their work as well as all entrepreneurs and employees. This is the condition for a strong and independent nation. If we are to fight effectively against injustices, against the fact that too many children in our Republic have their destiny decided on the day of their birth, we must continue to invest more in education and health. Educate, instruct, train or care, accompany. These are essential missions. We will continue to make school, lifelong learning and learning the foundation of our society. We are beginning to upgrade and transform the careers of teachers, teachers and caregivers. We will pursue an ambitious policy for the hospital I care about and for a more humane, patient-centred medicine. This year we will also have to make decisions for our fellow citizens with disabilities. As with our addicted seniors, two thousand and twenty will also be the year in which a new ecological model must be deployed. Many decisions have been taken in this regard. Shut down the coal-fired power plants, stop the new drilling, and I will not mention all of them here. I expect a great deal from the proposals prepared by DM 150, which have been involved in the citizens' convention and have been working hard for several weeks. It will be up to us next spring to assert new choices, a multi-year strategy to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions to combat global warming, but also to work for biodiversity. This national strategy must be ecological and economic. In other words, we must preserve the planet by creating new jobs. It must be ecological and social. We need to change our habits by helping the most modest to move, spending less and emitting less. It must be ecological and cultural. It must be a new policy of planning our landscapes, rediscovery of beauty, reinvention, a French quality of life. You did not wait for the government to commit yourself to this matter. You are at the forefront of all these daily struggles, through your food choices, but also through simple and essential gestures, which you, like our youth, have also shown us by an unprecedented mobilization. We need to amplify this movement and accelerate at all scales. Local, national, European, international. Finally, two thousand and twenty must open the decade of the rediscovered unity of I see too many divisions in the name of origins, religions, interests. I will fight with determination against the forces that undermine national unity, and in the coming weeks I will make further decisions on this matter. The State and the services have an essential role in strengthening this French unity. I also know that I can count on all the elected representatives. I want to have a warm thought tonight for the mayors of France. In a few weeks, many of them will stop after one or more terms. Others this your trust that it be tonight again, all thanked. They are the pillars of the Republic, of everyday life, of the We so much need them. I know I can count on you too. My dear compatriots, yes. To ensure the unity of the nation Let us always remember that we have more duties to France than rights. Our commitment, our sense of duty, our sense of respect for other citizens. These are values that are indispensable to our concord. These values are at the heart of the universal national service that will be deployed in the coming year, to which I attach the utmost importance. I remember that spring day that saw the arrow of Our Lady burned before collapsing. The wave of emotion immediately followed a wave of enthusiasm to quickly rebuild this national jewel for the next thousand years. Because each of us saw in Notre Dame the imprint of the French spirit, something that goes beyond us. We are a people of builders, aware of its universal vocation, a people of long time who, because it knows where it comes from, is to project itself a people that always means rising to the height of circumstances. This sense of this tirelessly proven unity will be stronger in facing the coming times. When history accelerates, the French spirit yields nothing to fatality. We have demonstrated this by preserving the Paris climate agreement by weighing on the resolution of crises which, in Ukraine, Iran, Libya and Syria, have a direct impact on our security. We are resolutely committed against terrorism in the Sahel, and we will have to demonstrate this again in the weeks and months ahead, in particular so that we can build a sovereign Europe in terms of defence, security, climate and digital matters. A Europe that is proud of its democratic model, combining freedom and solidarity. It will be both our shield and our voice. To this The UK's exit from the European Union is one I would like to maintain a strong relationship between our two countries. My dear compatriots, if we choose it and if we come together, the decade that opens may be ours, our nation can become the nation that invents the means of living strong and happy. In these times of great upheavals, I thought we were capable. We will have to know how to make choices, invest in the future, in our youth, in our research, in this new model, and project ourselves to the horizon of this decade. Yes, I believe in us, in our ability to build France together, let us turn the decade into a French and European decade. Each of you has a role to play. Each of you is essential to achieving this. That is why tonight I wish you all peace and happiness. As for me, how much is it? I measure every day the immense honour of serving you as the President of our Republic and preparing for the future of our. I will devote all my energy to it with a lot of heart, carrying your enthusiasm and your demands every day. I wish you a very happy year two thousand and twenty. Long live the Republic, long live France! Good evening to all. Good evening, Mr President. Good evening I have good evening Anne Sophie Good evening, Mr. Chairman. Good evening to all. I would like to point out that we have just removed our masks just now and that we are each two metres away from each other, so that we do not take the risk of contamination. First of all, Mr. Speaker, eight months after the outbreak in France, they are worried. They are sometimes confused by injunctions that seem contradictory. Where are we today in France? Are we or even calami mass level just before we get into containment? Did we lose control of the epidemic? Good evening, we haven't lost control. We are in one that is worrying and justifies that we are not inactive or in panic. We learned from the first. Our country has been hit by this wave. A report has just been issued which analyses what has been done well, not well done, but which has struck the whole of Europe. The whole world itself. We had in this first wave thirty thousand victims since then, two thousand more victims is indeed this virus that we have known now since the beginning of the year that has hit us for eight months, returns. We are in what has often been called this second wave and it goes back all over Europe. As we speak, Germany is also taking restrictive measures because it has a lot of cases. Fifteen days, three weeks behind us puts Spain in a worrying situation. The Netherlands is also in a very worrying situation, with even more cases reported to its population than we do and have taken very restrictive measures in recent days. So the virus goes back. Re circulate very fast, everywhere in Europe and in our country. But no, I think it is important to help the beginning of our exchange for all our citizens of exactly what we know about this virus. It is known that it WHO recalled this morning, zero decimal six percent of the people who are affected, thirty two thousand victims in France, They rather kill people who are older. It is true that ninety per cent of the people who died of this virus were over sixty five years old. Rather, it strikes those who also have other pathologies. Diabetes, hypertension, obesity, but you can also have nothing of it and die from it. And it strikes very unjustly, even more in the most precarious, poorest environments. But once I said that, this virus affects all age groups and there are very severe forms at all ages. By the time I speak to you, we will return half of the number of Coville who are in resuscitation for at least sixty five years. As I speak to you, we have hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who have had this virus, who have come out of it and who are getting it, who will come out of it, but who have lost their smell, their taste, who will have lung damage, sometimes gastric heart consequences, other cerebral effects that we do not fully understand. So this virus, it is dangerous and serious for everyone. Now we have now entered a phase where, indeed, we have to react. We measure every day better. We do between a comma three and a comma four million tests By this and right now we have an average of twenty thousand cases per day of more than twenty thousand. As I speak to you for several days, every day we have two hundred of our fellow citizens returning to resuscitation. Today two hundred and twenty six and we have thirty two per cent of our resuscitation services that are occupied by fellow citizens with empty bodies. This means that our resuscitation services are now in a situation of unsustainable pressure. And what is important to understand. I will focus on this point, because the difference between when I speak to you and what we did in March April is that we learned. We know how they work, and the virus didn't take off that much. So we haven't lost control. But our emergencies, our hospital services are in a situation that is more worrying than. Then why? Because then the, when we have challenges, decided the containment. The virus was in the region of Grand Est and Ile-de-France and since we closed everything, it spread very little and we were able, you remember, to distribute hundreds of and we massively de-programmed, that is, we stopped doing everything that was not necessary for weeks and weeks. So we freed up seats. Today, the virus is everywhere in France, so there is no hidden reserve. Today, our caregivers are very tired and rightly so because they were at for the first wave. They then had to reprogram all the other treatments throughout the summer and there is this second five so we don't have beds to hide them. And so that's why we need to take more stringent measures to regain full control. To use your formula, we will come back in a moment to the crime of resuscitation. The French have lived long weeks of containment and faced with this wave that seems inexorable and that have me you had several options Rees confining the whole country, reconfiguring as did some European neighbours, a city, an agglomeration or introduce one or curfews. It has been saying for several days that you have opted for this option. Curfew. Is that the case? Yes, but I have a word to explain why we're doing everything. That's why we're doing this. We said it. If we have to react, we have to curb the saying. The spread of the virus first to protect others, sometimes ourselves, depends on what we're talking about, but the older, the most vulnerable, the most primary objective. Second, we must protect our non-health care system. And then I speak for each of our fellow citizens who are listening to us tonight because we have heard over the last few weeks. Sometimes, some say. I'm not concerned, don't take away my freedom. If I have, I have the right to be contaminated. That is not true because we are a nation of citizens. We're all together. And so, even if I don't want to be altruistic, curbing the virus is also protecting my health. Because if I don't brake tomorrow, if I have something else, my mom, my dad, my sister has something else. There will be no room to heal him. I protect my job by doing this, so this is our goal and this objective in a very concrete way. These curbing the virus means making these 20,000 new cases a day, we're going to have to reduce them to three thousand cases a day. Because here we can control, it is because these two hundred entrants in resuscitation must also sharply reduce them to, basically, return to a level of number of cases as to the vacuum in resuscitation which is of the order of ten to fifteen percent to feed to the maximum. Because this is so you said very well in the face of that, it would be disproportionate to reconfigure the country. Our goal must be to reduce private contacts, which are the most dangerous contacts. That is, the moments, a little loosening. We're gonna end up with people who aren't in our family unit and where we're going. This is often moments of conviviality, it must be said. This is what is cruel in managing this disease of moments, we risk getting infected because we're going to be too close to each other for a certain period of time. And so yes, the so-called curfew is a measure that is relevant. We saw its relevance very concretely in French Guiana, that's what we did in French Guiana, it made it possible to slow things down. But the slowdown in social contacts is what has allowed us to be effective in Mayenne. This is what has enabled us to be effective in Guadeloupe, which has been hit very hard and has succeeded, which is in the process of reducing the circulation of the virus. And so the decision we have taken is indeed a curfew, a curfew that will apply to the region. Ile-de-France you? The virus circulates very actively and in several metropolises. In addition to the Ile-de-france region, I quote them to make it clear to everyone. The metropolises, I mean Grenoble, the island, Lyon, Aix Marseille, Montpellier, Rouen, Saint-Etienne and Toulouse all the elected representatives of these metropolises have been called. The prefects mobilized to organize things this curfew it will be between twenty and one o'clock and six o'clock in the morning and it will begin from this Saturday zero. How long will it be? Listen he lasted. The government is in a position to decide that for four weeks. We will go to Parliament so that we can try to extend until December 1. The analysis we are doing is that if in the next six weeks we manage to have the measures announced in the last few weeks in these areas of active traffic, because all these metropolises have been for some, with the exception of de Rouen, there is an acceleration. The last few days have seen their bar closed, uh, and other places already under stress. If we hold this curfew for six weeks, we are collectively responsible for a collective commitment to reduce these. At that time, we believe that we can gradually reopen. I'm very careful because experience teaches us that we don't master everything, that we don't know how to say everything. But six weeks is time that we think is useful. I just want to understand the purpose. The objective is to be able to continue to have an economic life so that it has worked, to work to ensure that schools, high schools, universities are open and work so that our fellow citizens can work quite normally so that there can obviously be a social life but reduce its roughness. And basically, what we want to catch, if I dare say, through this curfew measure. That's all that has advanced the virus in these regions i.e. private quotation marks, the, parties, uh, anniversaries, moments of conviviality, we find ourselves at fifty and sixty of the festive evenings unfortunately because they are vectors of accelerating this virus to be clear and concrete to twenty and an hour in all these cities, it must be eighteen, twenty million inhabitants indeed, the approximate management you are right, all the cinemas, all the restaurants, all the bars close, ride everyone is at home or on the way home then they will indeed close for seven hours After it depends where i think there must be a lot of common sense. All of this is very local management, which means that all but all these establishments will have to close at twenty-one hours. Afterwards, it depends on your particular situation. If you live next to the restaurant, you can go out at twenty-one hours at home. If you have half an hour of transport, you will arrange for it to leave it at twenty thirty and then after. There will also be elements of local consultation because it is clear that the situations are very different. The organization of our lives is not the same in Grenoble, Rouen, Saint Etienne or Paris, twenty-one hours. This is important because there are consequences of course, on restaurants, on bars, already very affected by previous measures, on theatres, on theatres, on theatres, on theatres, on theatres, on theatres, on theatres, on theatres, on theatres, on theatres, on theatres, on theatres, We will try to help as much as possible, for example for theatres, cinemas, to be able to have reprogramming, organize things for, you have to be able to go a little sooner. I say this because in many establishments, restaurants, theatres, cinemas, we have collectively designed rules that make us very well protected, very well protected, because we have reduced the number of people with whom we are at the restaurant, because we have sanitary protocols today that are very effective in cinema like or opera or others and therefore on it. We're gonna try to program a little sooner. It is certain that there will be economic consequences for these sectors still to be done and therefore very clearly. For example, in Paris, we know very well that if we ask for this curfew at twenty-one hours, we even have restaurants that will decide to close. So I'm gonna be very clear anyway. First, we'll probably come back to it. When we talk about economy, partial unemployment has full i.e., one hundred percent by the employee for the employer will be reactivated for all these hotels, cafes, restaurants, tourism, events, culture, sport so one hundred percent, ninety percent up to eighty up to four decimal five Smic to ninety percent of the net for employees. But we take care of one hundred percent. New ones were given for loans guaranteed by the state, little delayed by one year, the beginning of repayment and we have it. It has been phased out over five years, with very preferential rates negotiated and we can ask for the additional brackets to which we are entitled. And then, from Friday, in each of these metropolises, we will relaunch a local consultation with all the trades that are and we will improve the economic response with all these professionals, I say, I am thinking in particular of our restaurateurs. They have made extraordinary efforts, they bring the French art of living. And it is true that in some places they have more interest in closing where they will have to close because their fixed loads are too large, as we improve. So here, it means that very concretely, we are going to put in place additional arrangements because quite clearly, I do not want our self-employed to note, pay our SMEs, close to bankruptcy because of this curfew, as it was because of containment. Economic life means that in certain sectors we know the consequences we have. We can see it today with some cases that are rightly mentioned a lot. But we will have additional support devices. In other words, we will improve the economic support of all these in the metropolises where the curfew is installed. Because for some, we will have to do more than we have done with the self-employed fund or with the mechanisms I have just said. Yes, I would like to add a point for the self-employed, I would remind you, it has been extended to fifty employees. The mechanism? We take up to sixty percent of turnover and up to ten thousand euros. So this is the whole France. We're going to have to improve this system in the metropolises. Today, a restaurateur in Paris who has high rents, who has made every effort to comply if he does not get out of it, closing at twenty-one hours, we will accompany him. I would like us to return very concretely to the restrictions on individual freedoms which are going to be imposed on us, will there be exemptions, exceptions? I understood that I could not walk around at twenty two and fifteen without good cause. Will he have certifications as during the erratic containment of mobile phone application? How's it going? Yes, exactly like that. That is, as of Saturday morning. As of Saturday, it is the work that will be done in both nations tomorrow. The Prime Minister with the ministers in a press conference to go into the details, but in a very simple way, I said, we will continue to work our economy. We need our company. We need it, we need it. Our children need to continue to be in school. I am pleased that we were among the first countries to reopen our classes, that we were successful in the new school year, and I thank our teachers who did a great job. We have to keep going. We must continue to be able to go to work in all sectors, to care, to run our industry, our services, and our country needs this moral. And then to finance the rest of the model and therefore obviously for all those who return from work after twenty-one hours or who work at night, who work later, there will be an authorization. For those who have emergencies, for example sanitary, there will be authorizations. So we will define the cases there too and common sense that will allow us to circulate there will not be a ban on movement between twenty and one o'clock and six o'clock in the morning. There will be a strict limitation to the right reasons, but it means that we will not go to the restaurant anymore won't leave the restaurant after twenty-one hours. That we're gonna go to friends, that we're not going to party because we know that's where we get infected more easily. We need to reduce and who will enforce this curfew? And skate the police! Will there be military that no first um I think against before yes there will be regions with first there will be controls and I thank our law enforcement forces for doing it from the beginning and there will be fines as there are already for precisely many offences planned well so it will be a fine of one hundred and thirty five euros that is The one that prevails today the masks or restrictions already when there are some that are observed, i remind you and i also remind you that in case of a recurrence, it is one thousand five hundred euros because it is never forgotten, it must be dissuasive and we will mobilize all our police officers and therefore we will mobilize proportionately. And this, too, will be done locally close him, which I hope too. What I expect from each of us is that, as we did at the time of containment, each is a risk and a stake. You know, at the time of containment, we were one of the nations that best respected this decision. She was very difficult. The French were exemplary because they understood that it was to protect the most fragile, to protect in, and we respected it much better than in other countries. The figures show this, and the evaluation report to which I was referring makes it very clear. And so I, what I expect from each and every one of us knows that in the areas where it is decided, we do it rightly, because there are numbers that are transparent, that we share and that are there. We need it. And if you don't want to take harder measures in fifteen days, three weeks, a month, you have to enforce it. And so I, I, believe even more in the responsibility of every citizen. But of course, there will be controls. And yet, the report you are referring to is also about infantilisation. They blame a certain infantilization, every gesture, the curfew. And that, too, we collectively try to improve ourselves. I think we all have to, and I think we will return to it for the whole of France. And that's what we've been trying to do in the last few weeks. We are all, in a way, the actors in this battle against the virus and in our success. There are certain places. If we want to go much faster, be more radical, we need common rules. And this is putting rules, it's not infantilize, it's just telling responsible citizens. That is, but rules because we need to set ourselves collectively because otherwise we have, we will not act strongly enough, and I say so all our neighbours do so and neighbours who are today in Germany, there must be six or seven thousand cases a day. We're twenty thousand. Germany is taking measures like this today, uh, more cautious, it has fewer deaths, too, but so that means and I'm not talking about infantilization. So I do not think we are taking measures that are disproportionate. I think we are taking measures that are proportionate to the risk that we see afterwards. The evaluation report also shows that when we compare, France in mortality has held things well. Because if we look at the comparisons that we have sometimes made between France and Germany over two, three years, no, it is not so true that we still believe a very practical question. There will be so many public transport in these cities, in these towns and cities, under curfew. I could take a train from the island to Paris that arrives in Paris at twenty two and fifteen hours. He's picking up taxi, so much speed. And then it you're going to put a little public transport offer? It will obviously, uh, mobilize as we did, too, even though there were a little reductions during containment. But it will continue to be mobilized. There will be no restrictions on transportation. First point. This is important because there are people who will continue to work at night or in the evening or early morning, and because there must be travel for good reasons. Secondly, we have not decided to reduce movement between regions. Here, too, it's a choice. Because I think that, as you said, the choice not to infantilize but to empower and therefore it means that we do not prevent people from moving from one region to another or very concretely, from going on vacation. But we're going to ask them to respect citizenship rules in the weeks and months ahead. Some of them are going to have trouble understanding it. Because these holidays of All Saints' Day, it is the time of family gatherings or the youngest you will probably find grandparents. Is there not a danger precisely to allow your holiday to incite even to take your holiday of All Saints? That's what the Secretary of State for Tourism did when we're in the midst of a crisis, when some children will also come from two metropolis regions where, uh, the epidemic is a very high level. We know that when you're in open spaces, you can have a drink. We know that when we're in, uh, places where we can get out, we're fighting the virus more effectively. So asking people to stay at home in an apartment and not to go to a holiday place, honestly, it would be disproportionate, sometimes against intuitive, is that in fact we will relieve metropolises a little. Part of it is also allowed to go and watch. That's kind of what we had experienced at the beginning of the esque containment. But we've had a virus that's rampant everywhere, right? However, what we are going to say very clearly, what I am saying tonight very clearly to our fellow citizens, if they go to a rental in their holiday home, is to respect the rules as if they were at home. That is, of course, to continue to take the precautions that are going to be everywhere in society, but especially if we are going to gather together as a family and here too, it is once again common sense. I share the constraint with all of you is that we're not going to regulate all behaviours. I'm not gonna tell people we're stopping you from moving vaudeville, we're stopping you three days before we go on vacation. Now you'd tell me you'd infantilize people? No? You can go on vacation because it would be disproportionate to stop you from doing so. But if you go with your family, if you go with your grandparents, if you go with your family members who are fragile, it is imperative to follow the rules of practice, that is, even in the family setting, to put on your masks if you have not just been tested, and also, that is, to protect others. When you put on your mask, you protect others and therefore put on your masks when you are less than a meter away, keep the distances and walks as much as possible. Well, uh, to do and that's a very good thing, but confining ourselves, having gestures, even affection, uh, if I can say without any precaution, isn't suitable for the period we're going through. You do not generalize the wearing of the mask in departments of the six regions or the virus circulates little. If yes, we take no step back there, we have just said what we are going to vote in Parliament in the next six weeks, in the places where the virus circulates, the most active, and therefore it is this famous curfew with exceptional economic support and support and continuing, worked to admire. I say it is very important, I insist on that. Work will continue in all these metropolises and its regions. The associations will continue to function to deal with the most precarious. The utilities will continue to function. This is essential in the rest of the country. What do we have to do? We must, if I may say, remobilise ourselves collectively, which has a great deal of effort made by our fellow citizens. But I want to say the rules we're going to apply everywhere. These rules are simple gestures. We have to keep them in the family and everywhere in France, keep distances. More than one obviously with his spouse, those with whom we live all week and permanently. There is a closeness that is there, but when you are with other family members, friends or others, keep this distance of one meter, regularly wash your hands with hydroalcoholic gel or soap worn as much as possible a mask. There are places where it is mandatory. I'm not going back on those rules. They have now settled locally, so you don't have to change them. On the other hand, at the most, when you are one, you cannot respect these rules, even in private meetings, you must put on a mask as much as possible. This mask is a form of discipline, reflex that we have to take. That's a recommendation I'm making here. But if one wants to be cautious, reduce the risk for oneself and others, it is better to take, including with family or friends. Fourth rule also for everyone. Whole France. Ventilate regularly. We have to ventilate the scientists tell us decreases three times a day, but to wander regularly at protocols that are made elsewhere, in schools as in health professionals, it is important. And then, last rules, I say that because we looked at what works. And at our neighbors. Uh, that famous son rule at the restaurant, we said, it is. I thank our restaurateurs once again. We said no more than six at the table. Uh, as much as possible for our personal life, we have to deal with if we're a family of seven, eight, nine, ten FF obvious continues to have a normal family life. Here, too, it is necessary to have common sense and no more than six in his essay. You try when you invite friends to be no more than six at the table and no more than six on the street either. We didn't even regroup. That's more, too, it's settled. If what is a common sense rule that everyone can have, try to apply it to himself because it is also something that protects us and goes a little. Who will help us to curb entire France all this and so see everywhere in the territory these rules does not fall. I agree with what you said, which is indeed one of the teachings, it is no air and that we are going to put in decrees, protocols everywhere, rules. So I would like every citizen to take full ownership of his or her reflexes. They took the young people because I am talking about young people because we still feel that the curfew also targets a young population who goes out, who is celebrating, who has a lot of interests. Yes, but is it hard. It's hard to be twenty in two thousand and twenty, it's hard. So I'll never teach young people a lesson because they're the ones who honestly live. A terrible sacrifice, canceled exams, anguish for training, anguish for finding the first job. That's also why we put on such a mobilization. A young man, a solution. Let me remind you that we have created new formations. Places have been reopened so that young people can stay in college again. Uh, how CFA like in post-graduate schools, we've developed learning massively by accompanying companies so they can give them apprenticeship places. And figures stand pretty much in this new year and therefore pay a lot more, compensating the employer so that young people can find their place. So we'll do anything for our young people, but that's normal. When we're young, we party, we have friends, and so I feel guilty about people? No but I would like to understand for a few weeks, a few months that I ask not to have fewer friends. We're going to have to make a little effort, that is, to see each other fewer at the same time and also try to have this rule, to protect each other. And so I know it's a huge effort. But basically, the bet we're making now is. I share with you all the information I have there, forced. There are zones, these famous metropolises of the Ile-de-France region. It's going so fast that we need to take this curfew, which is going to be tough on economic sectors and which is binding. I measure for the rest of the country. The more everyone wears their rules, the more we get together, there's something else. I will also ask the whole of France to all the elected representatives to be appointed to propose plans. Mayors, by involving citizens better, do so terribly. They have citizen councils, they have, uh, create their own structure. We need to fully involve our citizens and involve our elected representatives, mayors must also be actors in this phase of prevention. They are the ones who know best how to go looking for our elders, go looking for associations to explain, carry our messages, better protected. So this is what we're going to do after the whole of France, by continuing to limit also the big rallies and let's continue the rules that we have since the beginning of the school year. You and your ministers have been telling you for a few days, a few weeks that the rule now, without knowing how far this rule leads us, is telework for as many as possible, at what low fifty percent of the time while eighty percent nine percent and then to deprive it, to which I have no right directly intervene and the civil service. And what you say to the five and a half million civil servants, stay home as much as possible, No, I'm not going to say that like that, because first of all work, be it in a company, in a public service, in a local authority, in the service of the state, in an association, it's a collective and I think we have to be careful. Telework is a tool when you use intelligently that these flexible, that it's almost individualized, negotiated as closely as possible, is intelligent. If it's a national rule, now we had to do it at the time of containment. But now, sometimes we think, people knew. Telework can be a little straightforward when you have a very nice second home and you telework, it's nice when you have an apartment, the children are at home, you have promiscuity, it gets fast, very. And then we need to talk with co-workers. So we need common sense here too. We need companies to work, they need to have, presence at work. We need public services that are open, post offices that are all open. It is not necessary to dream not at all that the cuts that closed in March April, one needs to have teachers who are in class is. So yes, everyone has to be present as much as possible. But where it's possible, when you're in an office, there's no access to the public. When you are in a company where the rules can do it as far as possible and negotiate as close as possible will rather encourage people to do for jobs or it is two to three days of telework a week. That's what some people have been doing for several weeks for what? Because it reduces collective pressure and traffic a little. But it takes common sense, but that's not the panacea. It also needs to be negotiated. And I The social partners are right to insist on this, negotiated in the branches and as close as possible. We must never forget that we live together and I think that we must succeed, reduce our useless contacts, sometimes our contacts, sorry to say it like that, but the most festive, but that we continue to have a social life at work. We protected ourselves well because we are in the rule of the mask, in school, in high school, in university, in associations, because this is life, we feel that the situation you described and which leads us to impose this curfew in the metropolises, it was predictable. It was even planned as foreseen by the scientific council's opinions in June or July. He was talking about the pressure on these metropolises, about the danger that the virus might be more virulent at the start of school, all of this was predictable. And then there was the failure of the screening policy. First we waited a long time. Uh, those tests heard them, expected in May and June or July, it's starting to happen. And then it is not possible to understand how one could predict the upstream, that is, not all test it downstream, i.e. not the examination of these papal theses. Means for processing this is at least two days because beyond two days it is money thrown out the windows. So you're right, we've had real difficulties on this subject. I think it has to be said, it is divided. Why? Because we climbed, we gave ourselves the means, and instead we followed the path of the means we had given ourselves. Today we are one of the countries that test more in Europe, not necessarily the most effectively, but come back. Why? Because that's the test techniques. But we do between a comma two and a comma four million. And when I look over the last few days because you understand that I watch with ministers on a daily basis, and I really want to pay tribute to the work of the government. Uh, mobilization of the Prime Minister, Minister of Health, who, uh, day and night, is doing his best with his teams to deal with the difficulties we had, which got a lot more than we thought, because it was free. Yes, but what reminds you of politics, the controversy we had at the beginning of school about masking them, what we needed, whether it's free or not at school, we made it free for all modest families, the more millions, because it wasn't free for everyone. We've had some controversy. You think the solution was to pay for the test? I don't think so. That, no, is to present the means. I totally assume that we are indeed made the test free because we decided to be in France, who would have no barriers to money? You have to say it, and since the beginning of this crisis, that's what we've done. We are one of the countries that has the most economically and socially accompanying our nation and I assume it and it is free of charge. Have involved this wave because it was free maybe, But I don't think there are many people who is who is in excess was getting tested, it's because it was mostly there were concerns because the virus has circulated, it's because the virus has been circulating between generations and we see it all over Europe. So I'm not gonna put that on the head politics. It is just said that what the report describes very well, there are indeed delays that were too long. Why? Because we didn't have the organization that allowed the. I thank me all the public and private health professionals who are. But we didn't have big test plants, we got a network that's full of small dots and so we had a system that wasn't used to getting such pressure and so there was a queue to get the tail test to get the results. This is related to the technique. Do you hear a lot about this test? It is called P, in fact, serves as an analytical technique. So how are we gonna answer that? We're going to change things, and I want to give our fellow citizens a perspective too. Now, I say for six weeks, we're going to curfew in these metropolises in the Ile-de-France region and we're remobilizing all over the country to try to win this battle. Then we have to gradually move towards one that is all over our country. Test, alert, protect. This is the key to the strategy that must be scaled up all the month of November and December, because we have at least two thousand twenty-one with this virus until the summer, all scientists are. And so if we don't want to do all the time, crashes restart, we have to get to the bottom of this virus much better. That's why I tell you that we must succeed in reducing the number of contamination days earlier, to three thousand five thousand eighty thousand as we are today and therefore the first pillar tested. We have an innovation that has happened in recent days, recognized by the World Health Organization, the High Authority for Health. These are what we call these antigenic tests. We're going to have to do this famous swab or in the nose, in the mouth, with these women discovered, everyone has become a subject expert. But it's 15 to 30 minutes that we get the result, it changes a lot. It can also be done in pharmacies, at different points. So this, we'll have more points of support, not just in laboratories. This is gonna be a real change. Then we develop techniques to analyze much faster, more tests together with PPP SR mode. And then we continue to innovate, not only in France, all over the world. To go to self-test or based on your saliva, sometimes your senses, you will be able to self-test. We're used to doing it and that pregnancy tests or other tests and so we're going to get into a strategy, we're going to deploy there for the next few weeks where we're going to be able to reduce delays even further. And so as soon as you have a hesitation, you're only in contact, you're symptomatic or you're in doubt, you can get tested. We'll get the answer quickly. Second pillar. The alert. When I'm tested, I need to be able to alert what we call, but it's contact with people I've been exposed to less than a meter with whom I've had dinner, with whom I've spent a long time with whom I've been in the cafeteria or other stop Coville has never made it possible to do it. You're right, it's a failure Uh e client e then the last figures you want to be sure to alert to date four hundred ninety-three so it's I won't take this figure to say that it's a failure, it didn't work out i.e. that on these on all it was much less download than all our neighbors. Two and a half million people, about the British. The Germans have a lot more downloads, we didn't succeed. But when I look at our neighbors today and the cases that have been identified by such an application, even in Germany, England, very few so no one managed to make the application a real alert tool. But we, at this point, have not been able to make the application a tool for people. So for several weeks, I've been asking teams to completely reconfigure things. We need to get a new app. She's all gonna be called Antique au vide. Everyone is mobilized. It's an app and look at what works and in others, learn from our mistakes. When is it for? On the twenty-second of October, it will be presented and it will go as its rise in charge. It will be an application first, where there will be information. How does the virus circulate, the virus, forgiveness where you are, where are the points to get tested and follow your gifts a little? Who will have general information, more specific and local information? Because people go to the app more often when there is this, which they do very well. Then we will also give instructions for use. It's useless, lit all the time. Many people said, his life, my battery at even more. I'm not sure at all. It doesn't work, we'll give a very clear user manual. We're gonna tell people when you go to the restaurant, when you go jerks to open up in the affected areas, at the bar, when you go to friends. Basically, every time I'm in a moment when I'm exposed to other people who aren't going to have under tomorrow, there's an element of risk. We turn on the anti-bullfighting, and we will also make it an instrument with us, with all the neighborhoods, with the others, with all the professionals. A tool to better alert, traced and therefore immediately, to identify these foci of contamination, escalation and prevention. And third thing, you have to protect yourself by being very strict on seven days of isolation, when you have the virus, even when you have no symptoms. And adapt precisely, uh, on that. Our answer and therefore this is the strategy towards which we will put much more resources to succeed as soon as we have fewer cases a day, because there are fewer collective constraints, but we follow this virus better and control it better. One of the lessons of this health care is that statistically it is the most disadvantaged who have been the victims of the health victims of economic victims also some associations, uh, some charities, uh, the head of the CFDT also asks for an increase in the social minima of the RSA and also asks that 18 and 25 years of age can benefit from the RSA.
